.TH CLDAP_OPEN 3 "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-1999 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
cldap_open \- Prepare for Connectionless LDAP Communication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
LDAP *cldap_open(host, port)
.ft
char *host;
int port;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B cldap_open()
routine is called to prepare for connectionless LDAP
communication (over
.BR udp (4p)).
It allocates an LDAP structure which
is passed to future search requests.
.LP
.B cldap_open()
takes
\fIhost\fP, the nane of the host on which the LDAP server is running, and
\fIport\fP, the port number to which to connect.  If the default
IANA-assigned port of 389 is desired, LDAP_PORT should be specified for
\fIport\fP.  \fIhost\fP can contain a space-separated list of hosts or
addresses to try.
.B cldap_open()
returns a pointer to an LDAP structure, which should be
passed to subsequent calls to
.BR cldap_search_s (3),
.BR cldap_setretryinfo (3),
and
.BR cldap_close (3).
Certain fields in the LDAP structure can be set to
indicate size limit, time limit, and how aliases are handled during
operations.  See
.BR ldap_open (3)
and <ldap.h> for more details.
.SH ERRORS
If an error occurs,
.B cldap_open()
will return NULL and errno will be set appropriately.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3)
.BR cldap_search_s (3),
.BR cldap_setretryinfo (3),
.BR cldap_close (3),
.BR udp (4p)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
