.TH LDAP_DISPTMPL 3 "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_init_templates, ldap_init_templates_buf, ldap_free_templates, ldap_first_disptmpl, ldap_next_disptmpl, ldap_oc2template, ldap_tmplattrs, ldap_first_tmplrow, ldap_next_tmplrow, ldap_first_tmplcol, ldap_next_tmplcol, \- LDAP display template routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <disptmpl.h>
.ft
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_init_templates( file, tmpllistp )
.ft
char			*file;
struct ldap_disptmpl	**tmpllistp;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_init_templates_buf( buf, buflen, tmpllistp )
.ft
char			*buf;
unsigned long		len;
struct ldap_disptmpl	**tmpllistp;
.LP
.ft B
void ldap_free_templates( tmpllist )
.ft
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpllist;
.LP
.ft B
struct ldap_disptmpl *ldap_first_disptmpl( tmpllist )
.ft
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpllist;
.LP
.ft B
struct ldap_disptmpl *ldap_next_disptmpl( tmpllist, tmpl )
.ft
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpllist;
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpl;
.LP
.ft B
struct ldap_disptmpl *ldap_oc2template( oclist, tmpllist )
.ft
char			**oclist;
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpllist;
.LP
.ft B
struct ldap_disptmpl *ldap_name2template( name, tmpllist )
.ft
char			*name;
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpllist;
.LP
.ft B
char **ldap_tmplattrs( tmpl, includeattrs, exclude, syntaxmask )
.ft
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpl;
char			**includeattrs;
int			exclude;
unsigned long		syntaxmask;
.LP
.ft B
struct ldap_tmplitem *ldap_first_tmplrow( tmpl )
.ft
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpl;
.LP
.ft B
struct ldap_tmplitem *ldap_next_tmplrow( tmpl, row )
.ft
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpl;
struct ldap_tmplitem	*row;
.LP
.ft B
struct ldap_tmplitem *ldap_first_tmplcol( tmpl, row )
.ft
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpl;
struct ldap_tmplitem	*row;
.LP
.ft B
struct ldap_tmplitem *ldap_next_tmplcol( tmpl, row, col )
.ft
struct ldap_disptmpl	*tmpl;
struct ldap_tmplitem	*row;
struct ldap_tmplitem	*col;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide a standard way to access LDAP entry display
templates.  Entry display templates provide a standard way for LDAP
applications to display directory entries.  The general idea is that it
is possible to map the list of object class values present in an entry
to an appropriate display template.  Display templates are defined in a
configuration file (see ldaptemplates.conf(5)).  Each display template
contains a pre-determined list of items, where each item generally
corresponds to an attribute to be displayed.  The items contain
information and flags that the caller can use to display the attribute and
values in a reasonable fashion.  Each item has a syntaxid, which are
described in the SYNTAX IDS section below.  The ldap_entry2text(3)
routines use the display template functions and produce text output.
.LP
ldap_init_templates() reads a sequence of templates from a valid LDAP
template configuration file (see ldaptemplates.conf(5))
.I Zero
is returned upon success, and
.I tmpllistp
is set to point to a list of templates.  Each member of the list is an
ldap_disptmpl structure (defined below in the DISPTMPL STRUCTURE ELEMENTS
section).
.LP
.LP
ldap_init_templates_buf() reads a sequence of templates from
.I buf
(whose size is
.I buflen).
.I buf
should point to the data in the format defined for an LDAP template
configuration file (see ldaptemplates.conf(5))
.I Zero
is returned upon success, and
.I tmpllistp
is set to point to a list of templates.
.LP
The
.B LDAP_SET_DISPTMPL_APPDATA()
macro is used to set the value of the dt_appdata field in an ldap_disptmpl
structure.  This field is reserved for the calling application to use; it
is not used internally.
.LP
The
.B LDAP_GET_DISPTMPL_APPDATA()
macro is used to retrieve the value in the dt_appdata field.
.LP
The
.B LDAP_IS_DISPTMPL_OPTION_SET()
macro is used to test a ldap_disptmpl structure for the existence of a
template option.  The options currently defined are:
.B LDAP_DTMPL_OPT_ADDABLE
(it is appropriate to allow entries of this type to be added),
.B LDAP_DTMPL_OPT_ALLOWMODRDN
(it is appropriate to offer the "modify rdn" operation),
.B LDAP_DTMPL_OPT_ALTVIEW
(this template is merely an alternate view of another template, typically
used for templates pointed to be an LDAP_SYN_LINKACTION item).
.LP
ldap_free_templates() disposes of the templates allocated by
ldap_init_templates().
.LP
ldap_first_disptmpl() returns the first template in the list
.I tmpllist.
The
.I tmpllist
is typically obtained by calling ldap_init_templates().
.LP
ldap_next_disptmpl() returns the template after
.I tmpl
in the template list
.I tmpllist.  A
.SM NULL
pointer is returned if
.I tmpl
is the last template in the list.
.LP
ldap_oc2template() searches
.I tmpllist
for the best template to use to display an entry that has a specific
set of objectClass values.
.I oclist
should be a null-terminated array of strings that contains the values
of the objectClass attribute of the entry.  A pointer to the first
template where all of the object classes listed in one of the
template's dt_oclist elements are contained in
.I oclist
is returned.  A
.B NULL
pointer is returned if no appropriate template is found.
.LP
ldap_tmplattrs() returns a null-terminated array that contains the
names of attributes that need to be retrieved if the template
.I tmpl
is to be used to display an entry.  The attribute list should be freed
using ldap_value_free().  The
.I includeattrs
parameter contains a null-terminated array of attributes that should
always be included (it may be
.B NULL
if no extra attributes are required).  If
.I syntaxmask
is non-zero, it is used to restrict the attribute set returned.  If
.I exclude
is zero, only attributes where the logical AND of the template item
syntax id and the
.I syntaxmask
is non-zero are included.  If
.I exclude
is non-zero, attributes where the logical AND of the template item
syntax id and the
.I  syntaxmask
is non-zero are excluded.
.LP
ldap_first_tmplrow() returns a pointer to the first row of items in
template
.I tmpl.
.LP
ldap_next_tmplrow() returns a pointer to the row that follows
.I row
in template
.I tmpl.
.LP
ldap_first_tmplcol() returns a pointer to the first item (in the first
column) of row
.I row
within template
.I tmpl.  A pointer to an ldap_tmplitem structure (defined below
in the TMPLITEM STRUCTURE ELEMENTS section) is returned.
.LP
The
.B LDAP_SET_TMPLITEM_APPDATA()
macro is used to set the value of the ti_appdata field in a ldap_tmplitem
structure.  This field is reserved for the calling application to use; it
is not used internally.
.LP
The
.B LDAP_GET_TMPLITEM_APPDATA()
macro is used to retrieve the value of the ti_appdata field.
.LP
The
.B LDAP_IS_TMPLITEM_OPTION_SET()
macro is used to test a ldap_tmplitem structure for the existence of an
item option.  The options currently defined are:
.B LDAP_DITEM_OPT_READONLY
(this attribute should not be modified),
.B LDAP_DITEM_OPT_SORTVALUES
(it makes sense to sort the values),
.B LDAP_DITEM_OPT_SINGLEVALUED
(this attribute can only hold a single value),
.B LDAP_DITEM_OPT_VALUEREQUIRED
(this attribute must contain at least one value),
.B LDAP_DITEM_OPT_HIDEIFEMPTY
(do not show this item if there are no values), and
.B LDAP_DITEM_OPT_HIDEIFFALSE
(for boolean attributes only:  hide this item if the value is FALSE).
.LP
ldap_next_tmplcol() returns a pointer to the item (column) that follows column
.I col
within row
.I row
of template
.I tmpl.
.SH DISPTMPL STRUCTURE ELEMENTS
The ldap_disptmpl structure is defined as:
.nf
.ft B
struct ldap_disptmpl {
	char                    *dt_name;
	char			*dt_pluralname;
	char                    *dt_iconname;
	unsigned long           dt_options;
	char                    *dt_authattrname;
	char                    *dt_defrdnattrname;
	char                    *dt_defaddlocation;
	struct ldap_oclist	*dt_oclist;
	struct ldap_adddeflist	*dt_adddeflist;
	struct ldap_tmplitem	*dt_items;
	void			*dt_appdata;
	struct ldap_disptmpl	*dt_next;
};
.ft
.fi
The dt_name member is the singular name of the template.  The dt_pluralname
is the plural name.  The dt_iconname member will contain the name of an
icon or other graphical element that can be used to depict entries that
correspond to this display template.  The dt_options contains options which
may be tested using the LDAP_IS_TMPLITEM_OPTION_SET() macro.
.LP
The dt_authattrname contains the name of the DN-syntax attribute whose
value(s) should be used to authenticate to make changes to an entry.  If
dt_authattrname is NULL, then authenticating as the entry itself is
appropriate.  The dt_defrdnattrname is the name of the attribute that
is normally used to name entries of this type, e.g., "cn" for person
entries.  The dt_defaddlocation is the distinguished name of an entry
below which new entries of this type are typically created (its value is
site-dependent).
.LP
dt_oclist is a pointer to a linked list of object class arrays, defined as:
.nf
.ft B
struct ldap_oclist {
	char			**oc_objclasses;
	struct ldap_oclist	*oc_next;
};
.ft
.fi
These are used by the ldap_oc2template() routine.
.LP
dt_adddeflist is a pointer to a linked list of rules for defaulting the
values of attributes when new entries are created.  The ldap_adddeflist
structure is defined as:
.nf
.ft B
struct ldap_adddeflist {
	int			ad_source;
	char			*ad_attrname;
	char			*ad_value;
	struct ldap_adddeflist	*ad_next;
};
.ft
.fi
The ad_attrname member contains the name of the attribute whose value this
rule sets.  If ad_source is 
.B LDAP_ADSRC_CONSTANTVALUE
then the ad_value member contains the (constant) value to use.
If  ad_source is
.B LDAP_ADSRC_ADDERSDN
then ad_value is ignored and the distinguished name of the person who
is adding the new entry is used as the default value for ad_attrname. 
.SH TMPLITEM STRUCTURE ELEMENTS
The ldap_tmplitem structure is defined as:
.nf
.ft B
struct ldap_tmplitem {
	unsigned long		ti_syntaxid;
	unsigned long		ti_options;
	char			*ti_attrname;
	char			*ti_label;
	char			**ti_args;
	struct ldap_tmplitem	*ti_next_in_row;
	struct ldap_tmplitem	*ti_next_in_col;
	void			*ti_appdata;
};
.ft
.fi
.SH SYNTAX IDS
Syntax ids are found in the ldap_tmplitem structure element ti_syntaxid,
and they can be used to determine how to display the values for the
attribute associated with an item.  The LDAP_GET_SYN_TYPE() macro can
be used to return a general type from a syntax id.  The five general types
currently defined are:
.B LDAP_SYN_TYPE_TEXT
(for attributes that are most appropriately shown as text),
.B LDAP_SYN_TYPE_IMAGE
(for JPEG or FAX format images),
.B LDAP_SYN_TYPE_BOOLEAN
(for boolean attributes),
.B LDAP_SYN_TYPE_BUTTON
(for attributes whose values are to be retrieved and display only upon 
request, e.g., in response to the press of a button, a JPEG image is
retrieved, decoded, and displayed), and
.B LDAP_SYN_TYPE_ACTION
(for special purpose actions such as "search for the entries where this
entry is listed in the seeAlso attribute").
.LP
The
.B LDAP_GET_SYN_OPTIONS
macro can be used to retrieve an unsigned long bitmap that defines
options.  The only currently defined option is
.B LDAP_SYN_OPT_DEFER,
which (if set) implies that the values for the attribute should not
be retrieved until requested.
.LP
There are sixteen distinct syntax ids currently defined.  These generally
correspond to one or more X.500 syntaxes.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_CASEIGNORESTR
is used for text attributes which are simple strings whose case is ignored
for comparison purposes.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_MULTILINESTR
is used for text attributes which consist of multiple lines,
e.g., postalAddress, homePostalAddress, multilineDescription, or any
attributes of syntax caseIgnoreList.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_RFC822ADDR
is used for case ignore string attributes that are RFC-822 conformant
mail addresses, e.g., mail.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_DN
is used for attributes with a Distinguished Name syntax, e.g., seeAlso.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_BOOLEAN
is used for attributes with a boolean syntax.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_JPEGIMAGE
is used for attributes with a jpeg syntax, e.g., jpegPhoto.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_JPEGBUTTON
is used to provide a button (or equivalent interface element) that can be
used to retrieve, decode, and display an attribute of jpeg syntax.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_FAXIMAGE
is used for attributes with a photo syntax, e.g., Photo.  These are
actually Group 3 Fax (T.4) format images.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_FAXBUTTON
is used to provide a button (or equivalent interface element) that can be
used to retrieve, decode, and display an attribute of photo syntax.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_AUDIOBUTTON
is used to provide a button (or equivalent interface element) that can be
used to retrieve and play an attribute of audio syntax.  Audio values are
in the "mu law" format, also known as "au" format.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_TIME
is used for attributes with the UTCTime syntax, e.g., lastModifiedTime.
The value(s) should be displayed in complete date and time fashion.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_DATE
is used for attributes with the UTCTime syntax, e.g., lastModifiedTime.
Only the date portion of the value(s) should be displayed.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_LABELEDURL
is used for labeledURL attributes.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_SEARCHACTION
is used to define a search that is used to retrieve related information.
If ti_attrname is not NULL, it is assumed to be a boolean attribute which
will cause no search to be performed if its value is FALSE.  The ti_args
structure member will have four strings in it:  ti_args[ 0 ] should be
the name of an attribute whose values are used to help construct a search
filter or "-dn" is the distinguished name of the entry being displayed
should be used, ti_args[ 1 ] should be a filter pattern where any occurrences
of "%v" are replaced with the value derived from ti_args[ 0 ], ti_args[ 2 ]
should be the name of an additional attribute to retrieve when performing
the search, and ti_args[ 3 ] should be a human-consumable name for that
attribute.  The ti_args[ 2 ] attribute is typically displayed along with
a list of distinguished names when multiple entries are returned by the
search.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_LINKACTION
is used to define a link to another template by name.  ti_args[ 0 ] will
contain the name of the display template to use.  The ldap_name2template()
routine can be used to obtain a pointer to the correct ldap_disptmpl structure.
.LP
.B LDAP_SYN_ADDDNACTION
and
.B LDAP_SYN_VERIFYDNACTION
are reserved as actions but currently undefined.
.SH ERRORS
The init template functions return
.B LDAP_TMPL_ERR_VERSION
if buf points to data that is newer than can be handled,
.B LDAP_TMPL_ERR_MEM
if there is a memory allocation problem,
.B LDAP_TMPL_ERR_SYNTAX
if there is a problem with the format of the templates buffer or file.
.B LDAP_TMPL_ERR_FILE
is returned by
.B ldap_init_templates
if the file cannot be read.   Other routines generally return
.B NULL
upon error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_entry2text (3),
.BR ldaptemplates.conf (5)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
