.TH LDAP 3 "13 May 2000" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap - OpenLDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.ft
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol provides access to
X.500 directory services.  The services may be stand\-alone
part of a distributed directory service.  This API supports
LDAP over TCP, LDAP over SSL, and LDAP over IPC (UNIX domain
sockets).
.LP
The OpenLDAP LDAP package includes a stand-alone server in
.BR slapd (8),
various LDAP clients, and an LDAP client library used to provide
programmatic access to the LDAP protocol. This man page gives an
overview of the LDAP library routines.
.LP
Both synchronous and asynchronous APIs are provided.  Also included are
various routines to parse the results returned from these routines.
These routines are found in the \-lldap library.
.LP
The basic interaction is as follows.  A session handle associated
with created using
.BR ldap_init (3).
The underlying session is established upon first use which is
commonly an LDAP bind operation.  The LDAP bind operation is
performed by calling one of
.BR ldap_sasl_bind (3)
and friends.  Next, other operations are performed
by calling one of the synchronous or asynchronous routines (e.g.,
.BR ldap_search_ext_s (3)
or
.BR ldap_search_ext (3)
followed by
.BR ldap_result (3)).
Results returned from these routines are interpreted by calling the
LDAP parsing routines such as
.BR ldap_parse_result (3).
The LDAP association and underlying connection is terminated by calling
.BR ldap_unbind_ext (3).
Errors can be interpreted by calling
.BR ldap_err2string (3).
.SH SEARCH FILTERS
Search filters to be passed to the ldap search routines can be
constructed by hand, or by calling the
.BR ldap_getfilter (3)
routines, which use the
.BR ldapgetfilter.conf (5)
file to turn a string (presumably that a user has typed) into a series
of search filters.
.SH DISPLAYING RESULTS
Results obtained from the ldap search routines can be output by hand,
by calling
.BR ldap_first_entry (3)
and
.BR ldap_next_entry (3)
to step through
the entries returned,
.BR ldap_first_attribute (3)
and
.BR ldap_next_attribute (3)
to step through an entry's attributes, and
.BR ldap_get_values (3)
to retrieve a given attribute's value.  Attribute values
may or may not be displayable.
.LP
Alternatively, the entry can be output automatically by calling
the
.BR ldap_entry2text (3),
.BR ldap_entry2text_search (3),
.BR ldap_entry2html (3),
or
.BR ldap_entry2html_search (3)
routines.  These routines look up the object
class of the entry they are passed in the
.BR ldaptemplates.conf (5)
file to decide which attributes to display and how to display them.
Output is handled via a routine passed in as a parameter.
.SH UNIFORM RESOURCE LOCATORS (URLS)
The
.BR ldap_url (3)
routines can be used test a URL to see if it is an LDAP URL, to parse LDAP
URLs into their component pieces, and to initiate searches directly using
an LDAP URL.
.SH USER FRIENDLY NAMING
The
.BR ldap_ufn (3)
routines implement a user friendly naming
scheme via LDAP.  This scheme allows you to look up entries
using fuzzy, untyped names like "john smith, example corp, ca, us".
.SH CACHING
The
.BR ldap_cache (3)
routines implement a local client caching scheme,
providing a substantial performance increase for repeated queries.
.SH UTILITY ROUTINES
Also provided are various utility routines.  The
.BR ldap_sort (3)
routines are used to sort the entries and values returned via
the ldap search routines.  The
.BR ldap_friendly (3)
routines are
used to map from short two letter country codes (or other strings)
to longer "friendlier" names.
.SH CONNECTIONLESS ACCESS
The
.BR cldap_search_s (3)
routine allows you to access the directory
via Connectionless LDAP (CLDAP), which is similar to LDAP but
operates over UDP, obviating the need to set up and tear down
a connection by calling
.BR ldap_open (3),
.BR ldap_bind (3),
and
.BR ldap_unbind (3).
.BR cldap_open (3)
should be called before using
.BR cldap_search_s (3).
All the same getfilter, parsing, and display that can be used
with regular LDAP routines can be used with the CLDAP routines.
.SH BER LIBRARY
Also included in the distribution is a set of lightweight Basic
Encoding Rules routines.  These routines are used by the LDAP library
routines to encode and decode LDAP protocol elements using the
(slightly simplified) Basic Encoding Rules defined by LDAP.  They are
not normally used directly by an LDAP application program excepting
in the handling of controls and extended operations.  The
routines provide a printf and scanf-like interface, as well as
lower-level access.  These routines are found in the -llber
library.
.SH INDEX
.TP 20
.SM ldap_open(3)
open a connection to an LDAP server
.TP
.SM ldap_init(3)
initialize the LDAP library without opening a connection to a server
.TP
.SM ldap_result(3)
wait for the result from an asynchronous operation
.TP
.SM ldap_abandon(3)
abandon (abort) an asynchronous operation
.TP
.SM ldap_add(3)
asynchronously add an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_add_s(3)
synchronously add an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_bind(3)
asynchronously bind to the directory
.TP
.SM ldap_bind_s(3)
synchronously bind to the directory
.TP
.SM ldap_simple_bind(3)
asynchronously bind to the directory using simple authentication
.TP
.SM ldap_simple_bind_s(3)
synchronously bind to the directory using simple authentication
.TP
.SM ldap_kerberos_bind_s(3)
synchronously bind to the directory using kerberos authentication
.TP
.SM ldap_kerberos_bind1(3)
asynchronously bind to the LDAP server using kerberos authentication
.TP
.SM ldap_kerberos_bind1_s(3)
synchronously bind to the LDAP server using kerberos authentication
.TP
.SM ldap_kerberos_bind2(3)
asynchronously bind to the DSA using kerberos authentication
.TP
.SM ldap_kerberos_bind2_s(3)
synchronously bind to the DSA using kerberos authentication
.TP
.SM ldap_unbind(3)
synchronously unbind from the LDAP server and close the connection
.TP
.SM ldap_unbind_s(3)
equivalent to
.BR ldap_unbind (3)
.TP
.SM ldap_memfree (3)
dispose of memory allocated by LDAP routines.
.TP
.SM ldap_enable_cache(3)
enable LDAP client caching
.TP
.SM ldap_disable_cache(3)
disable LDAP client caching
.TP
.SM ldap_destroy_cache(3)
disable LDAP client caching and destroy cache contents
.TP
.SM ldap_flush_cache(3)
flush LDAP client cache
.TP
.SM ldap_uncache_entry(3)
uncache requests pertaining to an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_uncache_request(3)
uncache a request
.TP
.SM ldap_set_cache_options(3)
set cache options
.TP
.SM ldap_compare(3)
asynchronous compare to a directory entry
.TP
.SM ldap_compare_s(3)
synchronous compare to a directory entry
.TP
.SM ldap_delete(3)
asynchronously delete an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_delete_s(3)
synchronously delete an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_init_templates(3)
initialize display template routines from a file
.TP
.SM ldap_init_templates_buf(3)
initialize display template routines from a buffer
.TP
.SM ldap_free_templates(3)
free display template routine memory
.TP
.SM ldap_first_disptmpl(3)
get first display template
.TP
.SM ldap_next_disptmpl(3)
get next display template
.TP
.SM ldap_oc2template(3)
return template appropriate for objectclass
.TP
.SM ldap_name2template(3)
return named template
.TP
.SM ldap_tmplattrs(3)
return attributes needed by template
.TP
.SM ldap_first_tmplrow(3)
return first row of displayable items in a template
.TP
.SM ldap_next_tmplrow(3)
return next row of displayable items in a template
.TP
.SM ldap_first_tmplcol(3)
return first column of displayable items in a template
.TP
.SM ldap_next_tmplcol(3)
return next column of displayable items in a template
.TP
.SM ldap_entry2text(3)
display an entry as text using a display template
.TP
.SM ldap_entry2text_search(3)
search for and display an entry as text using a display template
.TP
.SM ldap_vals2text(3)
display values as text
.TP
.SM ldap_entry2html(3)
display an entry as HTML (HyperText Markup Language) using a display template
.TP
.SM ldap_entry2html_search(3)
search for and display an entry as HTML using a display template
.TP
.SM ldap_vals2html(3)
display values as HTML
.TP
.SM ldap_perror(3)
print an LDAP error indication to standard error
.TP
.SM ld_errno(3)
LDAP error indication
.TP
.SM ldap_result2error(3)
extract LDAP error indication from LDAP result
.TP
.SM ldap_errlist(3)
list of ldap errors and their meanings
.TP
.SM ldap_err2string(3)
convert LDAP error indication to a string
.TP
.SM ldap_first_attribute(3)
return first attribute name in an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_next_attribute(3)
return next attribute name in an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_first_entry(3)
return first entry in a chain of search results
.TP
.SM ldap_next_entry(3)
return next entry in a chain of search results
.TP
.SM ldap_count_entries(3)
return number of entries in a search result
.TP
.SM ldap_friendly_name(3)
map from unfriendly to friendly names
.TP
.SM ldap_free_friendlymap(3)
free resources used by ldap_friendly(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_get_dn(3)
extract the DN from an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_explode_dn(3)
convert a DN into its component parts
.TP
.SM ldap_explode_rdn(3)
convert a RDN into its component parts
.TP
.SM ldap_dn2ufn(3)
convert a DN into user friendly form
.TP
.SM ldap_get_values(3)
return an attribute's values
.TP
.SM ldap_get_values_len(3)
return an attribute values with lengths
.TP
.SM ldap_value_free(3)
free memory allocated by ldap_get_values(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_value_free_len(3)
free memory allocated by ldap_get_values_len(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_count_values(3)
return number of values
.TP
.SM ldap_count_values_len(3)
return number of values
.TP
.SM ldap_init_getfilter(3)
initialize getfilter routines from a file
.TP
.SM ldap_init_getfilter_buf(3)
initialize getfilter routines from a buffer
.TP
.SM ldap_getfilter_free(3)
free resources allocated by ldap_init_getfilter(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_getfirstfilter(3)
return first search filter
.TP
.SM ldap_getnextfilter(3)
return next search filter
.TP
.SM ldap_build_filter(3)
construct an LDAP search filter from a pattern
.TP
.SM ldap_setfilteraffixes(3)
set prefix and suffix for search filters
.TP
.SM ldap_modify(3)
asynchronously modify an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_modify_s(3)
synchronously modify an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_mods_free(3)
free array of pointers to mod structures used by ldap_modify(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_modrdn2(3)
asynchronously modify the RDN of an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_modrdn2_s(3)
synchronously modify the RDN of an entry
.TP
.SM ldap_modrdn(3)
depreciated - use ldap_modrdn2(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_modrdn_s(3)
depreciated - use ldap_modrdn2_s(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_msgfree(3)
free results allocated by ldap_result(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_msgtype(3)
return the message type of a message from ldap_result(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_msgid(3)
return the message id of a message from ldap_result(3)
.TP
.SM ldap_search(3)
asynchronously search the directory
.TP
.SM ldap_search_s(3)
synchronously search the directory
.TP
.SM ldap_search_st(3)
synchronously search the directory with timeout
.TP
.SM ldap_ufn_search_s(3)
user friendly search the directory
.TP
.SM ldap_ufn_search_c(3)
user friendly search the directory with cancel
.TP
.SM ldap_ufn_search_ct(3)
user friendly search the directory with cancel and timeout
.TP
.SM ldap_ufn_setfilter(3)
set filter file used by ldap_ufn(3) routines
.TP
.SM ldap_ufn_setprefix(3)
set prefix used by ldap_ufn(3) routines
.TP
.SM ldap_ufn_timeout(3)
set timeout used by ldap_ufn(3) routines
.TP
.SM ldap_is_ldap_url(3)
check a URL string to see if it is an LDAP URL
.TP
.SM ldap_url_parse(3)
break up an LDAP URL string into its components
.TP
.SM ldap_url_search(3)
asynchronously search using an LDAP URL
.TP
.SM ldap_url_search_s(3)
synchronously search using an LDAP URL
.TP
.SM ldap_url_search_st(3)
synchronously search using an LDAP URL and a timeout
.TP
.SM ldap_init_searchprefs(3)
initialize searchprefs routines from a file
.TP
.SM ldap_init_searchprefs_buf(3)
initialize searchprefs routines from a buffer
.TP
.SM ldap_free_searchprefs(3)
free memory allocated by searchprefs routines
.TP
.SM ldap_first_searchobj(3)
return first searchpref object
.TP
.SM ldap_next_searchobj(3)
return next searchpref object
.TP
.SM ldap_sort_entries(3)
sort a list of search results
.TP
.SM ldap_sort_values(3)
sort a list of attribute values
.TP
.SM ldap_sort_strcasecmp(3)
case insensitive string comparison
.TP
.SM cldap_open(3)
open a connectionless LDAP (CLDAP) session
.TP
.SM cldap_search_s(3)
perform a search using connectionless LDAP
.TP
.SM cldap_setretryinfo(3)
set retry and timeout information using connectionless LDAP
.TP
.SM cldap_close(3)
terminate a connectionless LDAP session
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd (8)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
