.TH LDAP_FIRST_ATTRIBUTE 3 "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-1999 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_first_attribute, ldap_next_attribute \- step through LDAP entry attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
char *ldap_first_attribute(ld, entry, berptr)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
LDAPMessage *entry;
BerElement **berptr;
.LP
.ft B
char *ldap_next_attribute(ld, entry, ber)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
LDAPMessage *entry;
BerElement *ber;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_first_attribute()
and
.B ldap_next_attribute()
routines are used
to step through the attributes in an LDAP entry.
.B ldap_first_attribute()
takes an \fIentry\fP as returned by
.BR ldap_first_entry (3)
or
.BR ldap_next_entry (3)
and returns a pointer to a per-connection buffer
containing the first attribute type in the entry.  The return value
should be treated as if it is a pointer to a static area (i.e.,
.BR strdup (3)
it if you want to save it).
.LP
It also returns, in \fIberptr\fP, a pointer to a BerElement it has
allocated to keep track of its current position.  This pointer should
be passed to subsequent calls to
.B ldap_next_attribute()
and is used used
to effectively step through the entry's attributes.  The caller is
solely responsible for freeing the BerElement pointed to by \fIberptr\fP
when it is no longer needed by calling
.BR ber_free (3).
When calling
.BR ber_free (3)
in this instance, be sure the second argument is 0.
.LP
The attribute names returned are suitable for inclusion in a call
to
.BR ldap_get_values (3)
to retrieve the attribute's values.
.SH ERRORS
If an error occurs, NULL is returned and the ld_errno field in the
\fIld\fP parameter is set to indicate the error.  See
.BR ldap_error (3)
for a description of possible error codes.
.SH NOTES
The
.B ldap_first_attribute()
routine dyanamically allocated memory that must be freed by the caller via
.BR ber_free (3).   
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap(3),
.BR ldap_first_entry(3),
.BR ldap_get_values(3),
.BR ldap_error(3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
