.TH LDAP_UFN 3 "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-1999 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_ufn_search_s, ldap_ufn_search_c, ldap_ufn_search_ct, ldap_ufn_setfilter, ldap_ufn_setfilter, ldap_ufn_setprefix, ldap_ufn_timeout \- Perform an LDAP user friendly search operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_ufn_search_c(ld, ufn, attrs, attrsonly, res, cancelproc,
			cancelparm)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *ufn;
char **attrs;
int attrsonly;
LDAPMessage **res;
int (*cancelproc)();
void *cancelparm;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_ufn_search_ct(ld, ufn, attrs, attrsonly, res, cancelproc,
			cancelparm, tag1, tag2, tag3)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *ufn;
char **attrs;
int attrsonly;
LDAPMessage **res;
int (*cancelproc)();
void *cancelparm;
char *tag1, *tag2, *tag3;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_ufn_search_s(ld, ufn, attrs, attrsonly, res)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *ufn;
char **attrs;
int attrsonly;
LDAPMessage **res;
.LP
.ft B
LDAPFiltDesc *ldap_ufn_setfilter(ld, fname)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *fname;
.LP
.ft B
void ldap_ufn_setprefix(ld, prefix)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *prefix;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_ufn_timeout(tvparam)
.ft
void *tvparam;
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are used to perform LDAP user friendly search operations.
.B ldap_ufn_search_s()
is the simplest form.  It does the search
synchronously.  It takes \fIld\fP to identify the the LDAP connection.
The \fIufn\fP parameter is the user friendly name for which to search.
The \fIattrs\fP, \fIattrsonly\fP and \fIres\fP parameters are the
same as for
.BR ldap_search (3).
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_search_c()
routine functions the same as
.BR ldap_ufn_search_s() ,
except that it takes \fIcancelproc\fP, a function to call periodicly
during the search.  It should be a function taking a single void *
argument, given by \fIcalcelparm\fP.  If \fIcancelproc\fP returns a
non-zero result, the search will be abandoned and no results returned.
The purpose of this routine is to provide a way for the search to be
cancelled, for example, by a user or because some other condition
occurs.
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_search_ct()
routine is like
.BR ldap_ufn_search_c() ,
except that it takes three extra parameters.  \fItag1\fP is passed to the
.BR ldap_init_getfilter (3)
routine when resolving the first component of
the UFN.  \fItag2\fP is used when resolving intermediate components.
\fItag3\fP is used when resolving the last component.  By default,
the tags used by the other UFN search routines during these three
phases of the search are "ufn first", "ufn intermediate", and "ufn last".
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_setfilter()
routine is used to set the
.BR ldapfilter.conf (5)
file for use with the
.BR ldap_init_getfilter (3)
routine to \fIfname\fP.
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_setprefix()
routine is used to set the default prefix
(actually, it's a suffix) appended to UFNs before searhing.  UFNs
with fewer than three components have the prefix appended first,
before searching.  If that fails, the UFN is tried with progressively
shorter versions of the prefix, stripping off components.  If the UFN
has three or more components, it is tried by itself first.  If that
fails, a similar process is applied with the prefix appended.
.LP
The
.B ldap_ufn_timeout()
routine is used to set the timeout associated
with
.B ldap_ufn_search_s()
searches.  The \fItimeout\fP parameter
should actually be a pointer to a struct timeval (this is so
.B ldap_ufn_timeout()
can be used as a cancelproc in the above routines).
.SH NOTES
These routines may dynamically allocate memory.  The caller is
required to free such memory using the supplied deallocation routines.
Return values are contained
in <ldap.h>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gettimeofday (2),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_search (3),
.BR ldap_getfilter (3),
.BR ldapfilter.conf (5),
.BR ldap_error (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
