.TH LDAP_GETFILTER 3 "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-1999 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_init_getfilter, ldap_init_getfilter_buf, ldap_getfilter_free,
ldap_getfirstfilter, ldap_getnextfilter, ldap_build_filter \- LDAP filter generating routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#define LDAP_FILT_MAXSIZ	1024

typedef struct ldap_filt_info {
        char                    *lfi_filter;
        char                    *lfi_desc;
        int                     lfi_scope;
        int                     lfi_isexact;
        struct ldap_filt_info   *lfi_next;
} LDAPFiltInfo;

typedef struct ldap_filt_list {
    char                        *lfl_tag;
    char                        *lfl_pattern;
    char                        *lfl_delims;
    LDAPFiltInfo                *lfl_ilist;
    struct ldap_filt_list       *lfl_next;
} LDAPFiltList;

typedef struct ldap_filt_desc {
        LDAPFiltList            *lfd_filtlist;
        LDAPFiltInfo            *lfd_curfip;
        LDAPFiltInfo            lfd_retfi;
        char                    lfd_filter[ LDAP_FILT_MAXSIZ ];
        char                    *lfd_curval;
        char                    *lfd_curvalcopy;
        char                    **lfd_curvalwords;
        char                    *lfd_filtprefix;
        char                    *lfd_filtsuffix;
} LDAPFiltDesc;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.ft B
LDAPFiltDesc *ldap_init_getfilter( file )
.ft
char *file;
.LP
.nf
.ft B
LDAPFiltDesc *ldap_init_getfilter_buf( buf, buflen )
.ft
char *buf;
long buflen;
.LP
.ft B
ldap_getfilter_free( lfdp )
.ft
LDAPFiltDesc *lfdp;
.LP
.nf
.ft B
LDAPFiltInfo *ldap_getfirstfilter(lfdp, tagpat, value)
.ft
LDAPFiltDesc *lfdp;
char *tagpat;
char *value;
.LP
.nf
.ft B
LDAPFiltInfo *ldap_getnextfilter(lfdp)
.ft
LDAPFiltDesc *lfdp;
.LP
.ft B
void ldap_setfilteraffixes(lfdp, prefix, suffix)
.ft
LDAPFiltDesc *lfdp;
char *prefix;
char *suffix;
.LP
.ft B
void ldap_build_filter( buf, buflen, pattern, prefix, suffix,
	attr, value, valwords )
.ft
char *buf;
unsigned long buflen;
char *pattern;
char *prefix;
char *suffix;
char *attr;
char *value;
char **valwords;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are used to generate filters to be used in
ldap_search(3) or ldap_search_s(3).  Either ldap_init_getfilter or
ldap_init_getfilter_buf must be called prior to calling any of
the other routines except ldap_build_filter.
.LP
ldap_init_getfilter()
takes a file name as its only argument.  The contents of the file must
be a valid LDAP filter configuration file (see ldapfilter.conf(5)).  If
the file is successfully read, a pointer to an LDAPFiltDesc is
returned.  This is an opaque object that is passed in subsequent get
filter calls.
.LP
ldap_init_getfilter_buf()
reads from
.I buf
(whose length is
.I buflen)
the LDAP filter configuration information.
.I buf
must point to the contents of a valid LDAP filter configuration file
(see ldapfilter.conf(5)).  If the filter configuration information is
successfully read, a pointer to an LDAPFiltDesc is returned.  This is
an opaque object that is passed in subsequent get filter calls.
.LP
ldap_getfilter_free()
deallocates the memory consumed by ldap_init_getfilter.  Once it is
called, the LDAPFiltDesc is no longer valid and cannot be used again.
.LP
ldap_getfirstfilter()
retrieves the first filter that is appropriate for
.I value.
Only filter sets that have tags that match the regular expession
.I tagpat
are considered.  ldap_getfirstfilter returns a pointer to an
LDAPFiltInfo structure, which contains a filter with
.I value
inserted as appropriate in lfi_filter, a text match description in
lfi_desc, lfi_scope set to indicate the search scope, and lfi_isexact
set to indicate the type of filter.  NULL is returned
if no matching filters are found.  lfi_scope will be one of
.B LDAP_SCOPE_BASE,
.B LDAP_SCOPE_ONELEVEL,
or
.B LDAP_SCOPE_SUBTREE.
lfi_isexact
will be zero if the filter has any '~' or '*' characters in it and
non-zero otherwise.
.LP
ldap_getnextfilter()
retrieves the next appropriate filter in the filter set that was
determined when ldap_getfirstfilter was called.  It returns NULL when
the list has been exhausted.
.LP
ldap_setfilteraffixes()
sets a
.I prefix
to be prepended and a
.I suffix
to be appended to all filters returned in the future.
.LP
ldap_build_filter()
constructs an LDAP search filter in
.I buf.
.I buflen
is the size, in bytes, of the largest filter
.I buf
can hold.  A pattern for the desired filter is passed in
.I pattern.
Where the string %a appears in the pattern it is replaced with
.I attr.
.I prefix
is pre-pended to the resulting filter, and
.I suffix
is appended.  Either can be NULL (in which case they are not used).
.I value
and
.I valwords
are used when the string %v appears in
.I pattern.
See ldapfilter.conf(5) for a description of how %v is handled.
.LP
.SH ERRORS
NULL is returned by ldap_init_getfilter if there is an error reading
.I file.
NULL is returned by ldap_getfirstfilter and ldap_getnextfilter when there
are no more appropriate filters to return.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The return values for all of these functions are declared in the
<ldap.h> header file.
Some routines may dynamically allocate memory
which the caller must free using the supplied deallocator routines.
.SH FILES
ETCDIR/ldapfilter.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldapfilter.conf (5)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
