.TH SEARCHPREFS 3 "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_init_searchprefs, ldap_init_searchprefs_buf, ldap_free_searchprefs, ldap_first_searchobj, ldap_next_searchobj \- LDAP search preference configuration routeines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <srchpref.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct ldap_searchattr {
	char				*sa_attrlabel;
	char				*sa_attr;
					/* max 32 matchtypes for now */
	u_long				sa_matchtypebitmap;
	char				*sa_selectattr;
	char				*sa_selecttext;
	struct ldap_searchattr		*sa_next;
};

struct ldap_searchmatch {
	char				*sm_matchprompt;
	char				*sm_filter;
	struct ldap_searchmatch		*sm_next;
};

struct ldap_searchobj {
	char				*so_objtypeprompt;
	unsigned long			so_options;
	char				*so_prompt;
	short				so_defaultscope;
	char				*so_filterprefix;
	char				*so_filtertag;
	char				*so_defaultselectattr;
	char				*so_defaultselecttext;
	struct ldap_searchattr		*so_salist;
	struct ldap_searchmatch		*so_smlist;
	struct ldap_searchobj		*so_next;
};
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int ldap_init_searchprefs( file, solistp )
	char		\(**file;
	struct ldap_searchobj	\(***solistp;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
int ldap_init_searchprefs_buf( buf, buflen, solistp )
	char		\(**buf;
	unsigned long	len;
	struct ldap_searchobj	\(***solistp;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct ldap_searchobj \(**ldap_free_searchprefs( solist )
	struct ldap_searchobj	\(**solist;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct ldap_searchobj \(**ldap_first_searchobj( solist )
	struct ldap_seachobj	\(**solist;
.ft
.fi
.LP
.nf
.ft B
struct ldap_searchobj \(**ldap_next_searchobj( solist, so )
	struct ldap_searchobj	\(**solist;
	struct ldap_searchobj	\(**so;

.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions provide a standard way to access LDAP search preference
configuration data.  LDAP search preference configurations are typically
used by LDAP client programs to specify which attributes a user may
search by, labels for the attributes, and LDAP filters and scopes
associated with those searches.  Client software presents these choices
to a user, who can then specify the type of search to be performed.
.LP
.B ldap_init_searchprefs(\|)
reads a sequence of search preference configurations from a valid LDAP 
searchpref configuration file
(see ldapsearchprefs.conf(5))
.I Zero
is returned upon success, and 
.I solistp
is set to point to a list of search preference data structures.
.LP
.B ldap_init_searchprefs_buf(\|)
reads a sequence of search preference configurations from
.I buf
(whose size is
.I buflen).
.I buf
should point to the data in the format defined for an LDAP search preference 
configuration file (see ldapsearchprefs.conf(5))
.I Zero
is returned upon success, and 
.I solistp
is set to point to a list of search preference data structures.

.LP
.B ldap_free_searchprefs(\|)
disposes of the data structures allocated by
.B ldap_init_searchprefs(\|).
.LP
.B ldap_first_searchpref(\|)
returns the first search preference data structure in the list
.I solist.
The
.I solist
is typically obtained by calling
.B ldap_init_searchprefs(\|).
.LP
.B ldap_next_searchpref(\|)
returns the search preference after
.I so
in the template list
.I solist.  A
.SM NULL
pointer is returned if
.I so
is the last entry in the list.
.LP
.SH ERRORS
The init preferences functions return
.B LDAP_SEARCHPREF_ERR_VERSION
if buf points to data that is newer than can be handled, and
.B LDAP_SEARCHPREF_ERR_MEM
if there is a memory allocation problem.
.SH NOTES
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldapsearchprefs.conf (5),
.BR ldapd (8)
.LP
Yeong, W., Howes, T., and Hardcastle-Kille, S., "Lightweight Directory Access
Protocol", OSI-DS-26, April 1992.
.LP
Howes, T., Hardcastle-Kille, S., Yeong, W., and Robbins, C., "Lightweight
Directory Access Protocol", OSI-DS-26, April 1992.
.LP
Hardcastle-Kille, S., "A String Representation of Distinguished Names",
OSI-DS-23, April 1992.
.LP
Information Processing - Open Systems Interconnection - The Directory,
International Organization for Standardization.  International Standard
9594, (1988).
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
