.TH LDAP_RESULT 3 "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-1999 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_result \- Wait for the result of an LDAP operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_result(ld, msgid, all, timeout, result)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
int msgid, all;
struct timeval *timeout;
LDAPMessage **result;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_msgfree(msg)
.ft
LDAPMessage *msg;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_msgtype(msg)
.ft
LDAPMessage *msg;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_msgid(msg)
.ft
LDAPMessage *msg;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_result()
routine is used to wait for and return the result of
an operation previously initiated by one of the LDAP asynchronous
operation routines (e.g.,
.BR ldap_search (3),
.BR ldap_modify (3),
etc.).  Those routines all return -1 in case of error, and an
invocation identifier upon successful initiation of the operation. The
invocation identifier is picked by the library and is guaranteed to be
unique across the LDAP session.  It can be used to request the result
of a specific operation from
.B ldap_result()
through the \fImsgid\fP parameter.
.LP
The
.B ldap_result()
routine will block or not, depending upon the setting
of the \fItimeout\fP parameter.
If timeout is not a NULL pointer,  it  specifies  a  maximum
interval  to wait for the selection to complete.  If timeout
is a NULL  pointer,  the  select  blocks  indefinitely.   To
effect  a  poll,  the  timeout argument should be a non-NULL
pointer, pointing to a zero-valued timeval structure.  See
.BR select (2)
for further details.
.LP
If the result of a specific operation is required, \fImsgid\fP should
be set to the invocation identifier returned when the operation was
initiated, otherwise LDAP_RES_ANY should be supplied.  The \fIall\fP
parameter only has meaning for search responses and is used to select
whether a single entry of the search response should be returned, or
all results of the search should be returned.
.LP
A search response is made up of zero or
more search entries followed by a search result.  If \fIall\fP is set
to 0, search entries will be returned one at a time as they come in,
via separate calls to
.BR ldap_result() .
If it's set to 1, the search
response will only be returned in its entirety, i.e., after all entries
and the final search result have been received.
.LP
Upon success, the type of the result received is returned and the
\fIresult\fP parameter will contain the result of the operation.  This
result should be passed to the LDAP parsing routines,
.BR ldap_first_entry (3)
and friends, for interpretation.
.LP
The possible result types returned are:
.LP
.nf
	#define LDAP_RES_BIND			0x61L
	#define LDAP_RES_SEARCH_ENTRY		0x64L
	#define LDAP_RES_SEARCH_RESULT		0x65L
	#define LDAP_RES_MODIFY			0x67L
	#define LDAP_RES_ADD			0x69L
	#define LDAP_RES_DELETE			0x6bL
	#define LDAP_RES_MODRDN			0x6dL
	#define LDAP_RES_COMPARE		0x6fL
.fi
.LP
The
.B ldap_msgfree()
routine is used to free the memory allocated for
a result by
.B ldap_result()
or
.BR ldap_search_s (3)
and friends.  It takes
a pointer to the result to be freed and returns the type of the
message it freed.
.LP
The
.B ldap_msgtype()
routine returns the type of a message.
.LP
The
.B ldap_msgid()
routine returns the message id of a message.
.SH ERRORS
.B ldap_result()
returns -1 if something bad happens, and zero if the
timeout specified was exceeded.
.B ldap_msgtype()
and
.B ldap_msgid()
return -1 on error.
.SH NOTES
This routine dynamically allocates memory for results that it receives.
The memory can be freed by the caller using
.BR ldap_msgfree .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_search (3),
.BR select (2)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
