.TH LDAP_EXTENDED_OPERATION 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2006 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_extended_operation, ldap_extended_operation_s \- Extends the LDAP operations to the LDAP server.
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, -lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_extended_operation( ld, requestoid, requestdata, sctrls[], cctrls[], msgidp );
.ft
LDAP *ld;
const char *requestoid;
const struct berval *requestdata;
LDAPControl *sctrls[], *cctrls[];
int *msgidp;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_extended_operation_s( ld, requestoid, requestdata, sctrls[], cctrls[], retoidp, retdatap ); 
.ft
LDAP *ld,
const char *requestoid;
const struct berval *requestdata;
LDAPControl *sctrls[], *cctrls[];
char **retoidp;
struct berval **retdatap;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_extended_operation_s
method is used to synchronously send an extended operation to the server.
It takes \fIrequestoid\fP, which points to a dotted OID text string identifying
the extended operation to perform. \fIrequestdata\fP is the data required for the
operation, \fIseverctrls\fP is an array of LDAPControl structures to use with this
extended operation,\fIclientctrls\fP is an array of LDAPControl structures that list
the client controls to use with this extended operation .The input parameter
\fIretoidp\fP points to a dotted-OID text string returned by the LDAP server.
The memory used by the string should be freed with the ldap_memfree function.
retdatap is an output parameter which points to a pointer to a berval structure
that contains the returned data. If no data is returned, the server set this
to NULL. The memory used by this structure should be freed with the ber_bvfree
function.
.LP
The
.B ldap_extended_operation
works just like ldap_extended_operation_s, but the operation is asynchornous.
It returns the message id of the request it initiated.
The result of this operation can be obtained by calling
.BR ldap_result(3).
.SH NOTES
The LDAP server must support the operation; otherwise an
LDAP_NOT_SUPPORTED error is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_parse_extended_result (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
