.TH LDAP_CONTROLS 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2007 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_create_control, ldap_find_control, ldap_control_free, ldap_controls_free \- LDAP control manipulation routines
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, -lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ldap.h>
.LP
.BI "int ldap_create_control(LDAP_CONST char *" OID ", BerElement *" ber ", int " iscritical ", LDAPControl **" ctrlp ");"
.LP
.BI "LDAPControl *ldap_find_control(LDAP_CONST char *" OID ", LDAPControl **" ctrls ");"
.LP
.BI "void ldap_control_free(LDAPControl *" ctrl ");"
.LP
.BI "void ldap_controls_free(LDAPControl **" ctrls ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines are used to manipulate structures used for LDAP controls.
.BR ldap_create_control ()
creates a control with the specified
.I OID
using the contents of the
.I ber
parameter for the control value, if any. The
.I iscritical
parameter should be non-zero for a critical control. The created control
is returned in the
.I ctrlp
parameter. The routine returns
.B LDAP_SUCCESS
on success or some other error code on failure.
.BR ldap_find_control ()
searches the
.I ctrls
array for a control whose OID matches the
.I OID
parameter. The routine returns a pointer to the control if found,
NULL otherwise.
.BR ldap_control_free ()
frees an individual control structure, and
.BR ldap_controls_free ()
frees an array of controls.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_error (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
