.TH LDAP_ABANDON 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2006 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_abandon_ext \- Abandon an LDAP operation in progress
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, -lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ldap.h>
.BI "int ldap_abandon_ext(LDAP *" ld ", int " msgid ","
.RS
.BI "LDAPControl *" sctrls "[], LDAPControl *" cctrls "[]);"
.RE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
routine is used to abandon or cancel an LDAP
operation in progress.  The \fImsgid\fP passed should be the
message id of an outstanding LDAP operation, as returned by
.BR ldap_search_ext (3),
.BR ldap_modify_ext (3),
etc.
.LP
.BR ldap_abandon_ext ()
checks to see if the result of the operation has already come in.  If it
has, it deletes it from the queue of pending messages.  If not,
it sends an LDAP abandon operation to the the LDAP server.
.LP
The caller can expect that the result of an abandoned operation
will not be returned from a future call to
.BR ldap_result (3).
.LP
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
allows server and client controls to be passed in via the
.I sctrls
and
.I cctrls
parameters, respectively.
.SH ERRORS
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
directly returns an LDAP error code indicating success or failure of the
operation.
.LP
See
.BR ldap_error (3)
for details.
.SH DEPRECATED INTERFACES
The
.B ldap_abandon()
routine is deprecated in favor of the
.B ldap_abandon_ext()
routine. 
.LP
.so deprecated
While deprecated,
these interfaces generally remain in the library.  The macro
LDAP_DEPRECATED can be defined to a non-zero value
(e.g., -DLDAP_DEPRECATED=1) when compiling program designed to use
deprecated interaces.  It is recommended that developers writing new
programs, or updating old programs, avoid use of deprecated interfaces.
Over time, it is expected that documentation (and, eventually, support) for
deprecated interfaces to be eliminated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_result (3),
.BR ldap_error (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
