.TH LDAP_DELETE 3 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2008 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldap_delete, ldap_delete_s \- Perform an LDAP delete operation
.SH LIBRARY
OpenLDAP LDAP (libldap, -lldap)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <ldap.h>
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_delete_s(ld, dn)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *dn;
.LP
.ft B
int ldap_delete(ld, dn)
.ft
LDAP *ld;
char *dn;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ldap_delete_s()
routine is used to perform an LDAP delete operation
synchronously.  It takes \fIdn\fP, the DN of the entry to be deleted.
It returns an LDAP error code, indicating the success or failure of the
operation.
.LP
The
.B ldap_delete()
routine is used to perform an LDAP delete operation
asynchronously.  It takes the same parameters as
.BR ldap_delete_s() ,
but returns the message id of the request it initiated.  The result of
the delete can be obtained by a subsequent call to
.BR ldap_result (3).
.SH ERRORS
.B ldap_delete_s()
returns an LDAP error code which can be interpreted
by calling one of
.BR ldap_perror (3)
and friends.
.B ldap_delete()
returns -1 if something went wrong initiating the request.  It returns the
non-negative message id of the request if things went ok.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_error (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
