.TH EDB2LDIF 8C "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-1999 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
edb2ldif \- QUIPU EDB file to LDIF conversion tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/edb2ldif
.B [\-d] [\-v] [\-r] [\-o] [\-b basedn]
.B [\-a addvalsfile] [\-f fileattrdir]
.B [\-i ignoreattr...] [edbfile...]
.B 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Data that is held in a QUIPU DSA (available as part of the ISODE package)
is stored in or can be easily converted to the EDB file format.  The
.I edb2ldif
tool is used to convert directory data from EDB file format to the
LDAP Directory Interchange Format (LDIF) used by
.BR slapd (8)
and associated utilities.  The
.BR slapadd (8)
program can be used to convert the resulting LDIF data into a database
that is compatible with
.BR slapd (8).
.LP
.I edb2ldif
writes LDIF formatted data to standard output.  If you specify a particular
.I edbfile
(or files) to read data from, they are converted.  If no
.I edbfile
is specified, the files named
.BR EDB.root
(if it exists) and
.BR EDB
in the current directory are converted. An entire EDB hierarchy
can be converted using the
.B \-r
option.
.LP
When
.I edb2ldif
is invoked, it will also look for files named
.BR .add
in the directories
where EDB files are found and append the contents of the
.BR .add
file to each entry in the corresponding EDB file. 
Typically, this feature is used to include inherited
attribute values (e.g., objectClass) that do not appear in the EDB files.
.LP
See "The SLAPD and SLURPD Administrator's Guide" for more details on
using
.I edb2ldif,
including step-by-step conversion instructions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on some extra debugging which is written to standard error.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose mode that writes status information to standard error, such
as which EDB file is being processed, how many entries have been
converted so far, etc.
.TP
.B \-r
Recurse through child directories, processing all EDB files found.
.TP
.B \-o
Cause local
.B .add
file definitions to override the global addfile (see the
.B \-a
option below)
.TP
.BI \-b " basedn"
Specify the Distinguished Name that all EDB file entries appear below.
.TP
.B \-a " addvalsfile"
The LDIF information contained in this file will be appended to each entry.
(See the
.B \-o
option above.)
.TP
.BI \-f " fileattrdir"
Specify a single directory where all file-based attributes (typically sounds
and images) can be found.  If this option is not given, file attributes are
assumed to be located in the same directory as the EDB file that refers to
them.
.TP
.BI \-i " ignoreattr"
Specify an attribute that should not be converted.  You can include as many
\- i flags as necessary.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapd (8),
.BR slapadd (8)
.LP
"The SLAPD and SLURPD Administrator's Guide"
.LP
Volume 5 of The ISODE Manual
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
