.TH GO500GW 8C "20 August 2000" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
go500gw \- General Gopher to X.500 gateway for browsing and searching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B LIBEXECDIR/go500gw [\-a] [\-d level] [\-f filterfile]
.B [\-t templatefile] [\-c rdncount]
.B [\-h helpfile] [\-l] [\-p listenport]
.B [\-P ldapport] [\-x ldaphost] [\-I]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B go500gw
is the general gopher to X.500 browsing and search gateway daemon.
It speaks gopher on one side and X.500 (via LDAP)
on the other.  It presents the X.500 DIT as a tree of menus,
search items, and documents in gopher space, supporting both
browsing and searching of X.500 via a gopher client.  By default,
it listens on port 7777 for connections from gopher clients.
.LP
The
.B go500gw
server can be run either from
.BR inetd (8)
or as stand-alone server.
.SH STAND-ALONE OPERATION
To start
.B go500gw
as a stand-alone server, simply start it with no arguments
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	LIBEXECDIR/go500gw
.ft
.fi
.LP
If you would like to start it at boot time add some lines like this to
the
.BR /etc/rc.local (5)
or equivalent file:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	if [ -f LIBEXECDIR/go500gw ]; then
		LIBEXECDIR/go500gw; echo ' go500gw'
	fi
.ft
.fi
.SH OPERATION WITH INETD
To arrange to have
.B go500gw
started from
.BR inetd (8), the Internet protocol
daemon, add a line like the following to your
.BR /etc/services (5)
file, or the equivalent:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
    go500gw           7777/tcp        go500gw
.ft
.fi
.LP
Next, add a line like this to your
.BR /etc/inetd.conf (5)
file, or the equivalent:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
    go500gw  stream  tcp  nowait  nobody  LIBEXECDIR/go500gw    go500gw -I
.ft
.fi
.LP
For these changes to take effect with inetd, you will probably have
to send it it a HUP signal.  See
.BR inetd (8)
for more details.
.SH GOPHER CONFIGURATION
The next step is to configure your local gopher server to have an
entry for
.BR go500gw .
With the standard unix gopher server, this
can be done with a
.B .link
file.  A sample
.B .link
file is given below, with the things you should change given in <>'s:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	Name=<Label of your choice>
	Type=1
	Port=7777
	Path=1<optional RFC 2253-format DN at which to start browsing>
	Host=<host.running.go500gw.here>
.ft
.fi
.LP
You may also have to restart your gopher daemon, or remove the
.B .cache
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Search aliases when doing LDAP searches.  The default is not to
search aliases.
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
Turn on debugging as defined by
.I level.
If this option is specified,
.B go500gw
will not fork or disassociate from the invoking terminal.  Some general
operation and status messages are printed for any value of \fIlevel\fP.
\fIlevel\fP is taken as a bit string, with each bit corresponding to a
different kind of debugging information.
.TP
.BI \-f " filterfile"
Specify an alternate filter configuration file for use with the
.BR ldap_getfilter (3)
facility, used by
.BR go500gw .
.TP
.BI \-h " helpfile"
Specify an alternate help file.  The help file is what is displayed
in the "About the Gopher to X.500 Gateway" menu item.
.TP
.B \-l
Enable logging of various status and errors to the LOG_LOCAL3 facility via
.BR syslog (8).
.TP
.BI \-p " listenport"
Specify an alternate port on which to listen for connections.
.TP
.BI \-P " ldapport"
Specify an alternate port on which to contact the LDAP server.
.TP
.BI \-t " templatefile"
Specify an alternate template  configuration  file  for
use  with  the
.BI ldap_init_templates (3)
facility, used by
.B go500gw .
.TP
.BI \-c " rdncount"
Specify the number of DN components to show for the names and DN attributes
within entries matching the search.
.TP
.BI \-x " hostname"
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
.TP
.B \-I
Run from
.BR inetd (8).
.SH NOTES
Some implementations of inetd have a small limit on the number of arguments
that can be specified in the
.BR /etc/inetd.conf (5)
file.  This can cause
problems if you are using
.B go500gw
with a lot of arguments.
.LP
The default values for most of the things you can specify with
options are configured at compile time in the
.B include/ldapconfig.h.edit
include file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_getfilter (3),
.BR inetd (8),
.BR gopherd (8),
.BR go500 (8)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
