.TH GO500 8C "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-1999 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
go500 \- Local Gopher index search to X.500 search gateway
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B LIBEXECDIR/go500 [\-b searchbase] [\-d level] [\-l]
.B [\-x hostname] [\-c rdncount] [\-f filterfile]
.B [\-t templatefile]
.B [\-p port] [\-I]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I go500
is the local gopher index search to X.500 search daemon.
It looks like a gopher index server to a gopher
client, translating the search criteria it is given into a
search of a pre-configured portion of the X.500 directory.
It uses LDAP to talk to X.500.  By default, it listens on
port 5555 for connections from gopher clients.
.LP
The
.B go500
server can be run either from
.BR inetd (8)
or as stand-alone server.
.SH STAND-ALONE OPERATION
To start
.B go500
as a stand-alone server, simply start it with no arguments
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	LIBEXECDIR/go500
.ft
.fi
.LP
If you would like to start it at boot time add some lines like this to
the
.B etc/rc.local
or equivalent file:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	if [ -f LIBEXECDIR/go500 ]; then
		LIBEXECDIR/go500; echo ' go500'
	fi
.ft
.fi
.SH OPERATION WITH INETD
To arrange to have
.B go500
started from
.BR inetd (8),
the Internet protocol
daemon, add a line like the following to your
.B /etc/services
file, or the equivalent:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
    go500           5555/tcp        go500
.ft
.fi
.LP
Next, add a line like this to your
.B /etc/inetd.conf
file, or the equivalent:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
    go500   stream  tcp     nowait  nobody  LIBEXECDIR/go500    go500 -I
.ft
.fi
.LP
For these changes to take effect with inetd, you will probably have
to send it it a HUP signal.  See
.BR inetd (8)
for more details.
.SH GOPHER CONFIGURATION
The next step is to configure your local gopher server to have an
entry for
.BR go500 .
With the standard unix gopher server, this
can be done with a
.B .link
file.
A sample
.B .link
file is given below, with the things you should
change given in <>'s:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	Name=<Label of your choice>
	Type=7
	Port=5555
	Path=
	Host=<host.running.go500.here>
.ft
.fi
.LP
You may also have to restart your gopher daemon, or remove the
.B .cache
file.
See
.BR gopherd (8)
for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b " searchbase"
Specify an alternate starting point for searches.  The argument should
be a Distinguished Name in the form defined by RFC 1485.  For example,
the DN "o=University of Michigan, c=US" could be given to search the
University of Michigan portion of the X.500 tree.
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
Turn on debugging as defined by
.I level.
If this option is specified,
.B go500
will not fork or disassociate from the invoking terminal.  Some general
operation and status messages are printed for any value of \fIlevel\fP.
\fIlevel\fP is taken as a bit string, with each bit corresponding to a
different kind of debugging information.
.TP
.BI \-f " filterfile"
Specify an alternate filter configuration file for use with the
.BR ldap_getfilter (3)
facility, used by
.BR go500 .
.TP
.B \-l
Enable logging of various status and errors to the LOG_LOCAL3 facility via
syslog(8).
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Specify an alternate port on which to listen for connections.
.TP
.BI \-t " templatefile"
Specify an alternate template  configuration  file  for
use  with  the
.BR ldap_init_templates (3)
facility, used by
.BR go500 .
.TP
.BI \-c " rdncount"
Specify the number of DN components to show for the names and DN attributes
within entries matching the search.
.TP
.BI \-x " hostname"
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
.TP
.B \-I
Run from
.BR inetd (8).
.SH NOTES
Some implementations of inetd have a small limit on the number of arguments
that can be specified in the
.BR /etc/inetd.conf (5)
file.  This can cause
problems if you are using
.B go500
with a lot of arguments.
.LP
The default values for most of the things you can specify with
options are configured at compile time in the
.B include/ldapconfig.h.edit
include file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR inetd (8),
.BR gopherd (8),
.BR go500gw (8)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
