.TH IN.XFINGERD 8C "20 August 2000" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
in.xfingerd \- Finger to LDAP/X.500 gateway daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B LIBEXECDIR/in.xfingerd [\-f filterfile] [\-i]
.B [\-l] [\-t templatefile] [\-c rdncount] [\-x hostname]
.B [\-b searchbase] [\-p port]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B in.xfingerd
is the LDAP/X.500 finger daemon.  It runs from
.BR inetd (8)
and translates
finger queries into LDAP queries or X.500 queries via LDAP.
It also understands
UFN-style names, so fingering something like "tim howes,umich,us@hostname"
will do a UFN search.
.LP
To arrange to have in.xfingerd started from inetd
add a line like this to your
.BR /etc/inetd.conf (5)
file, or the equivalent:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
    finger stream tcp nowait nobody LIBEXECDIR/in.xfingerd in.xfingerd
.ft
.fi
.LP
For these changes to take effect with inetd, you will probably have
to send it it a HUP signal.  See
.BR inetd (8)
for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-f " filterfile"
Specify an alternate filter configuration file for use with the
.BR ldap_getfilter (3)
facility, used by
.BR in.xfingerd .
.TP
.B \-i
Run in interactive mode.  With this flag in.xfingerd can be
run from a terminal in "one shot" mode, reading the finger
request from standard input.  This is useful for debugging.
.TP
.B \-l
Disable logging of various status and errors to the LOG_LOCAL4 facility via
.BR syslog (8).
Note that this flag turns OFF logging.  The default is on.
.TP
.BI \-t " templatefile"
Specify an alternate template configuration file for use with the
.BR ldap_init_templates (3)
facility, used by
BR in.xfingerd .
.TP
.BI \-c " rdncount"
Specify the number of DN components to show for the names and DN attributes
within entries matching the search.
.TP
.BI \-x " hostname"
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Specify an alternate port on which the ldap server is listening.
.TP
.BI \-b " searchbase"
Specify an alternate search base for queries.
.SH NOTES
The default values for most of the things you can specify with
options are configured at compile time in the
.B include/ldapconfig.h.edit
include file.  Also included there are various messages displayed
by the finger daemon when finding no matches, encountering errors, etc.
You should configure
.B ldapconfig.h.edit
for your site.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR finger (1)
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_getfilter (3),
.BR inetd (8),
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
