.TH LDAPD 8C "19 September 1999" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapd \- LDAP X.500 Protocol Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B LIBEXECDIR/ldapd [\-d level] [\-l] [\-c dsaname]
.B [\-p port] [\-t timeout] [\-r referraltimeout]
.B [\-I] [\-U]
.I (deprecated)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Ldapd
is the LDAP to X.500 gateway daemon.  The LDAP protocol is used to
provide lightweight TCP/IP access to the X.500 Directory. The
.B ldapd
server is typically invoked at boot time, usually out of
.BR  /etc/rc.local .
Upon startup,
.B ldapd
normally forks and disassociates itself from the invoking tty, and then
listens on port 389 for TCP connections from LDAP clients.
The server performs the following basic operations for the client:
.TP 14
.B Bind
Bind to the X.500 directory.  Currently only simple (clear-text password)
and kerberos version 4 authentication are supported.
.TP
.B Search
Search the X.500 directory for entries that match a given filter.
The scope of the search can be base object, one level, or whole subtree.
Note that the X.500 read and list can be emulated using search.
.TP
.B Modify
Change the attributes and values of an existing X.500 entry.
.TP
.B Modify RDN
Change the Relative Distinguished Name of an X.500 entry.
.TP
.B Add
Add an entry to the X.500 directory.
.TP
.B Remove
Remove an entry from the X.500 directory.
.TP
.B Abandon
Abort an operation in progress.
.LP
See
.BR ldap (3)
for details on client-side access to the ldap server.  See
.I RFC 1777: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
and
.I RFC 1778: The String Representation of
.I Standard Attribute Syntaxes
for details of the protocol supporting the above operations.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
Turn on debugging as defined by
.I level.
If this option is specified,
.I ldapd
will not fork or disassociate from the invoking terminal.  Some general
operation and status messages are printed for any value of \fIlevel\fP.
\fIlevel\fP is taken as a bit string, with each bit corresponding to a
different kind of debugging information.  See <ldap.h> for details.
.TP
.B \-l
Enable logging of various status and errors to the LOG_LOCAL4 facility via
.BR syslog (8).
.TP
.RB \-c " dsaname"
Connect to the named DSA initially.  The
.I dsaname
given should be a name found in the local dsaptailor file or an
actual presentation address.
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Listen on port
.I port
instead of the default port.  This is useful for debugging purposes.
.TP
.BI \-t " timeout"
Specify the timeout value after which idle connections from
clients are closed.
.TP
.BI \-r " referraltimeout"
Specify the timeout value after which idle connections to DSAs
are closed.
.TP
.B \-I
Run from
.BR inetd (8)
instead of as a stand-alone daemon.
.TP
.B \-U
Support Connectionless LDAP (CLDAP).  In this mode, ldapd listens for
CLDAP search requests only on a UDP port, performs the search, and
returns the result.  See
.BR udp (4)
for more information on UDP.
.SH EXAMPLES
To start ldapd and have it fork and detach from the terminal and connect
to the first DSA listed in the dsaptailor file, just type:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	LIBEXECDIR/ldapd
.ft
.fi
.LP
To connect to an alternate DSA and turn on voluminous debugging which
will be printed on standard error, type:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	LIBEXECDIR/ldapd -c dsanameoraddr -d 31
.ft
.fi
.LP
where dsanameoraddr is a presentation address or a name that appears
in the local dsaptailor file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR udp (4),
.BR slapd (8)
.BR inetd (8)
.LP
Volume 5 of The ISODE Manual
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
