.TH LDIF 8C "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldif \- convert arbitrary data to LDIF format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/ldif [\-b] attr\-name
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This program is used to convert arbitrary data to the
LDAP Directory Interchange Format (LDIF) described in
.BR ldif (5).
.B ldif
reads data from standard input, converts it,
and writes the corresponding LDIF output to standard output.
The output is suitable for use as a line in an
.BR ldif (5)
file.
.LP
Without the
.B \-b
flag,
.B ldif
considers its input a sequence of values to be
converted, one per line. With the
.B \-b
flag, 
.B ldif
considers its input as a single raw binary value to be
converted. This can be useful when converting binary data
such as a photo or audio attribute.
.LP
See "The SLAPD and SLURPD Administrator's Guide" for more details on
using this program.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
This option specifies that
.B ldif
should interpret its input as a single binary value for conversion.
Otherwise, it interprets it as a sequence of lines, with each line
containing a single value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR slapd (8)
.LP
"The SLAPD and SLURPD Administrator's Guide"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
