.TH LDIF2LDBM 8C "13 November 1995" "U-M LDAP LDVERSION"
.SH NAME
ldif2ldbm, ldif2index, ldif2id2entry, ldif2id2children \- LDIF to LDBM database format conversion utilities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/ldif2ldbm
.B \-i ldif\-input\-file
.B [\-d debug\-level] [\-f slapd\-config\-file]
.B [\-j number\-of\-jobs]
.LP
.B SBINDIR/ldif2index
.B \-i ldif\-input\-file
.B [\-d debug\-level] [\-f slapd\-config\-file]
.B attribute\-name
.LP
.B SBINDIR/ldif2id2entry
.B \-i ldif\-input\-file
.B [\-d debug\-level] [\-f slapd\-config\-file]
.LP
.B SBINDIR/ldif2id2children
.B \-i ldif\-input\-file
.B [\-d debug\-level] [\-f slapd\-config\-file]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These programs are used to convert a database in text LDIF LDAP
Directory Interchange Format (LDIF) to an LDBM database suitable
for use by
.BR slapd (8).
Normally, only
.B ldif2ldbm
is invoked by you. It will invoke the other programs as necessary.
Occasionally, it may be necessary to invoke them by hand. For
example, to create a new index file for an existing database, the
.B ldif2index
program can be invoked. The
.BR ldbmcat (8)
program is used to do the reverse conversion.
.LP
See "The SLAPD and SLURPD Administrator's Guide" for more details on
using these programs.
.SH OPTIONS
The first three options apply to all four programs. The -j option is
only for the 
.B ldif2ldbm
program.
.TP
.BI \-i " ldif\-input\-file"
This option specifies the location of the LDIF input file containing
the database to convert. It is required.
.TP
.BI \-d " debug\-level"
Turn on debugging as defined by
.B debug\-level.
Some general operation and status messages are printed for any value of
\fIdebug\-level\fP.  \fIdebug\-level\fP is taken as a bit string, with
each bit corresponding to a different kind of debugging information. 
See <ldap.h> for details.
.TP
.BI \-f " slapd\-config\-file"
This option
Specifies the
.B slapd
configuration file. The default is
.BR ETCDIR/slapd.conf .
.TP
.BI \-j " number\-of\-jobs"
This option only applies to the
.B ldif2ldbm
program. It specifies the level of parallelism to use when doing the
conversion.
.B ldif2ldbm
invokes several other programs during the conversion process,
most notably one invocation of
.B ldif2index
for each indexed attribute that appears in the LDIF input file. The -j
option tells
.B ldif2ldbm
how many of these other programs it should run in parallel. This can
speed up the conversion, but beware of starting too many processes
in parallel, all competing for disk, memory, and cpu resources. The
default is one.
.SH EXAMPLES
To convert the file
.BR ldif.input
into an LDBM database with indexes as described in the
.I slapd
config file
.BR ETCDIR/slapd.conf ,
give the command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/ldif2index -i ldif.input -f ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.ft
.fi
.LP
To do the same, but running two conversion sub-processes at a time,
give this command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/ldif2index -i ldif.input -f ETCDIR/slapd.conf -j 2
.ft
.fi
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR ldbmcat (8),
.BR edb2ldif (8)
.LP
"The SLAPD and SLURPD Administrator's Guide"
