.TH RCPT500 8C "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-1999 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
rcpt500 \- mail to X.500 gateway program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B LIBEXECDIR/rcpt500 [\-l] [\-h ldaphost] [\-p ldapport]
.B [\-b searchbase] [\-a] [\-U] [\-z sizelimit] [\-u dapuser]
.B [\-f filterfile] [\-t templatefile] [\-c rdncount]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rcpt500
is a mail-query server that answers X.500 white pages queries.  It is
designed to be run out of your mail system alias file (or the equivalent).
.B rcpt500
accepts the entire contents (including headers) of an RFC 822
message on standard input.  The message is parsed, and a search or help
command found in the Subject: header of message body is recognized and
a reply is sent to the sender.
.LP
If you are using
.BR sendmail (8),
you could add the following line to the
.BR aliases (5)
file
.RB ( /etc/aliases )
to have
.B rcpt500
invoked whenever mail is sent to the address \fInamelookup\fP on your host:
.nf
.fi
.ft tt
    namelookup:	"|LIBEXECDIR/rcpt500 -l"
.ft
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
Enable logging of requests to the LOG_DAEMON facility.
.TP
.BI \-h " ldaphost"
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
.TP
.BI \-p " ldapport"
Specify and alternate TCP port where the ldap server is running.
.TP
.BI \-b " searchbase"
Specify an alternate base for searches.  \fIsearchbase\fP should be
a string-represented LDAP Distinguished Name.
.TP
.B \-a
Turn off dereferencing of aliases for the LDAP search.
.TP
.B \-U
Use Connectionless LDAP (over UDP).  This option is only available when
.B rcpt500
is compiled with -DCLDAP.
.TP
.BI \-z " sizelimit"
Limit the maximum number of entries returned to \fIsizelimit\fP
entries.
.TP
.BI \-t " templatefile"
Specify an alternate template configuration file for use with the
.BR ldap_init_templates (3)
facility, used by rcpt500.
.TP
.BI \-c " rdncount"
Specify the number of DN components to show for the names and DN attributes
within entries matching the search.
.SH NOTES
The default values for most of the things you can specify with options
are configured at compile time in the
.B include/ldapconfig.h.edit
include
file.  Also included there are the pathname of the help file, the name
of the command used to send replies, etc.  You should configure
.B ldapconfig.h.edit
for your site.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B DATADIR/rcpt500.help
help file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR aliases (5),
.BR sendmail (8)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
