.TH SLAPADD 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2008 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slapadd \- Add entries to a SLAPD database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slapadd
.B [\-v]
.B [\-c]
.B [\-g]
.B [\-u]
.B [\-q]
.B [\-w]
.B [\-s]
.B [\-d level]
.B [\-b suffix]
.B [\-n dbnum]
.B [\-f slapd.conf]
.B [\-F confdir]
.B [\-l ldif-file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slapadd
is used to add entries specified in LDAP Directory Interchange Format
(LDIF) to a
.BR slapd (8)
database.
It opens the given database determined by the database number or
suffix and adds entries corresponding to the provided LDIF to
the database.
Databases configured as
.B subordinate
of this one are also updated, unless \fB-g\fP is specified.
The LDIF input is read from standard input or the specified file.
.LP
As
.B slapadd
is designed to accept LDIF in database order, as produced by
.BR slapcat (8),
it does not verify that superior entries exist before
adding an entry, does not perform all user and system
schema checks, and does not maintain operational
attributes (such as createTimeStamp and modifiersName). 

All files eventually created by
.BR slapadd
will belong to the identity
.BR slapadd
is run as, so make sure you either run
.BR slapadd
with the same identity
.BR slapd (8)
will be run as (see option
.B \-u
in
.BR slapd (8)),
or change file ownership before running
.BR slapd (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
enable verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-c
enable continue (ignore errors) mode.
.TP
.B \-g
disable subordinate gluing.  Only the specified database will be
processed, and not its glued subordinates (if any).
.TP
.B \-u
enable dry-run (don't write to backend) mode.
.TP
.B \-q
enable quick (fewer integrity checks) mode.  Does fewer consistency checks
on the input data, and no consistency checks when writing the database.
Improves the load time but if any errors or interruptions occur the resulting
database will be unusable.
.TP
.BI \-w
write syncrepl context information.
After all entries are added, the contextCSN
will be updated with the greatest CSN in the database.
.TP
.BI \-s
disable schema checking.  This option is intended to be used when loading
databases containing special objects, such as fractional objects on a
partial replica.  Loading normal objects which do not conform to
schema may result in unexpected and ill behavior.
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR level .
.TP
.BI \-b " suffix" 
Use the specified \fIsuffix\fR to determine which database to
add entries to.  The \-b cannot be used in conjunction
with the
.B \-n
option.
.TP
.BI \-n " dbnum"
Add entries to the \fIdbnum\fR\-th database listed in the
configuration file.  The
.B \-n
cannot be used in conjunction with the
.B \-b
option.
.TP
.BI \-f " slapd.conf"
specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-F " confdir"
specify a config directory.
If both
.B -f
and
.B -F
are specified, the config file will be read and converted to
config directory format and written to the specified directory.
If neither option is specified, an attempt to read the
default config directory will be made before trying to use the default
config file. If a valid config directory exists then the
default config file is ignored. If dryrun mode is also specified,
no conversion will occur.
.TP
.BI \-l " ldif-file"
Read LDIF from the specified file instead of standard input.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Your
.BR slapd (8)
should not be running 
when you do this to ensure consistency of the database.
.LP
.B slapadd 
may not provide naming or schema checks.  It is advisable to
use
.BR ldapadd (1)
when adding new entries into an existing directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
To import the entries specified in file
.B ldif
into your
.BR slapd (8)
database give the command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slapadd -l ldif
.ft
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapcat (8),
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR slapd (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
