.TH SLAPPASSWD 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2008 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slappasswd \- OpenLDAP password utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slappasswd
.B [\-v]
.B [\-u]
.B [\-s secret|\-T file]
.B [\-h hash]
.B [\-c salt-format]
.B 
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slappasswd
is used to generate an userPassword value
suitable for use with
.BR ldapmodify (1)
or
.BR slapd.conf (5)
.I rootpw
configuration directive.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
enable verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-u
Generate RFC 2307 userPassword values (the default).  Future
versions of this program may generate alternative syntaxes
by default.  This option is provided for forward compatibility.
.TP
.BI \-s " secret"
The secret to hash.
If this and
.B \-T
are absent, the user will be prompted for the secret to hash.
.B \-s
and
.B \-T
and mutually exclusive flags.
.TP
.BI \-T " file"
Hash the contents of the file.
If this and
.B \-s
are absent, the user will be prompted for the secret to hash.
.B \-s
and
.B \-T
and mutually exclusive flags.
.TP
.BI \-h " scheme"
If -h is specified, one of the following RFC 2307 schemes may
be specified:
.IR {CRYPT} ,
.IR {MD5} ,
.IR {SMD5} ,
.IR {SSHA} ", and"
.IR {SHA} .
The default is 
.IR {SSHA} .

Note that scheme names may need to be protected, due to
.B {
and
.BR } ,
from expansion by the user's command interpreter.

.B {SHA}
and
.B {SSHA}
use the SHA-1 algorithm (FIPS 160-1), the latter with a seed.

.B {MD5}
and
.B {SMD5}
use the MD5 algorithm (RFC 1321), the latter with a seed.

.B {CRYPT}
uses the
.BR crypt (3).

.B {CLEARTEXT}
indicates that the new password should be added to userPassword as
clear text.
.TP
.BI \-c " crypt-salt-format"
Specify the format of the salt passed to
.BR crypt (3)
when generating {CRYPT} passwords.  
This string needs to be in
.BR sprintf (3)
format and may include one (and only one) %s conversion.
This conversion will be substituted with a string random
characters from [A\-Za\-z0\-9./].  For example, '%.2s'
provides a two character salt and '$1$%.8s' tells some
versions of crypt(3) to use an MD5 algorithm and provides
8 random characters of salt.  The default is '%s', which
provides 31 characters of salt.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The practice storing hashed passwords in userPassword violates
Standard Track (RFC 2256) schema specifications and may hinder
interoperability.  A new attribute type, authPassword, to hold
hashed passwords has been defined (RFC 3112), but is not yet
implemented in
.BR slapd (8).
.TP
It should also be noted that the behavior of
.BR crypt (3)
is platform specific.
.SH "SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS"
Use of hashed passwords does not protect passwords during
protocol transfer.  TLS or other eavesdropping protections
should be in\-place before using LDAP simple bind.
.TP
The hashed password values should be protected as if they
were clear text passwords.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldappasswd (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR slapd (8)
.BR slapd.conf (5)
.B RFC 2307
.B RFC 2256
.B RFC 3112
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
OpenLDAP is developed and maintained by
The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
OpenLDAP is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
