.TH SLAPSASLAUTH 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 2004 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slapsaslauth \- Check a list of string-represented IDs for authc/authz.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slapsaslauth
.B [\-v]
.B [\-d level]
.B [\-f slapd.conf]
.B [\-U authcID]
.B [\-X authzID]
.B ID [...]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slapsaslauth
is used to check the behavior of the slapd in mapping identities 
for authentication and authorization purposes, as specified in 
.BR slapd.conf (5).
It opens the
.BR slapd.conf (5)
configuration file, reads in the 
.B sasl-authz-policy
and
.B sasl-regexp
directives, and then parses the 
.B ID
list given on the command-line.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
enable verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR level .
.TP
.BI \-f " slapd.conf"
specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-U " authcID"
specify an ID to be used as 
.I authcID
throughout the test session.
If present, and if no
.B authzID
is given, the IDs in the ID list are treated as 
.BR authzID .
.TP
.BI \-X " authzID"
specify an ID to be used as 
.I authzID
throughout the test session.
If present, and if no
.B authcID
is given, the IDs in the ID list are treated as 
.BR authcID .
If both
.I authcID 
and
.I authzID
are given via command line switch, the ID list cannot be present.
.SH EXAMPLES
The command
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slapsaslauth -f /ETCDIR/slapd.conf -v \\
            -U bjorn -X u:bjensen

.ft
.fi
tests whether the user
.I bjorn
can assume the identity of the user 
.I bjensen
provided the directives
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	sasl-authz-policy from
	sasl-regexp "^uid=([^,]+).*,cn=auth$"
		"ldap:///o=University of Michigan,c=US??sub?uid=$1"

.ft
.fi
are defined in
.BR slapd.conf (5).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR slapd (8)
.BR slaptest (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
