.TH SLAPINDEX 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2008 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slapindex \- SLAPD index to LDIF utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SBINDIR/slapindex
.B [\-v]
.B [\-c]
.B [\-g]
.B [\-q]
.B [\-d level]
.B [\-b suffix]
.B [\-n dbnum]
.B [\-f slapd.conf]
.B [\-F confdir]
.B 
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slapindex
is used to regenerate
.BR slapd (8)
indices based upon the current contents of a database.
It opens the given database determined by the database number or
suffix and updates the indices for all values of all attributes
of all entries.
Databases configured as
.B subordinate
of this one are also re-indexed, unless \fB-g\fP is specified.

All files eventually created by
.BR slapindex
will belong to the identity
.BR slapindex
is run as, so make sure you either run
.BR slapindex
with the same identity
.BR slapd (8)
will be run as (see option
.B \-u
in
.BR slapd (8)),
or change file ownership before running
.BR slapd (8).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
enable verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-c
enable continue (ignore errors) mode.
.TP
.B \-g
disable subordinate gluing.  Only the specified database will be
processed, and not its glued subordinates (if any).
.TP
.B \-q
enable quick (fewer integrity checks) mode. Performs no consistency checks
when writing the database. Improves indexing time,
.B however
the database will most likely be unusable if any errors or
interruptions occur.
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
enable debugging messages as defined by the specified
.IR level .
.TP
.BI \-b " suffix" 
Use the specified \fIsuffix\fR to determine which database to
generate output for.  The \-b cannot be used in conjunction
with the
.B \-n
option.
.TP
.BI \-n " dbnum"
Generate output for the \fIdbnum\fR\-th database listed in the
configuration file.  The
.B \-n
cannot be used in conjunction with the
.B \-b
option.
.TP
.BI \-f " slapd.conf"
specify an alternative
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file.
.TP
.BI \-F " confdir"
specify a config directory.
If both
.B -f
and
.B -F
are specified, the config file will be read and converted to
config directory format and written to the specified directory.
If neither option is specified, an attempt to read the
default config directory will be made before trying to use the default
config file. If a valid config directory exists then the
default config file is ignored.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Your
.BR slapd (8)
should not be running (at least, not in read-write
mode) when you do this to ensure consistency of the database.
.LP
This command provides ample opportunity for the user to obtain
and drink their favorite beverage.
.SH EXAMPLES
To reindex your SLAPD database, give the command:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	SBINDIR/slapindex
.ft
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR slapd (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
