.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2004 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.TH SLAPD 8C "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.SH NAME
slapd \- Stand-alone LDAP Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B LIBEXECDIR/slapd 
.B [\-[4|6]]
.B [\-T {add|auth|cat|dn|index|passwd|test}]
.B [\-d debug\-level]
.B [\-f slapd\-config\-file]
.B [\-h URLs]
.B [\-n service\-name] [\-s syslog\-level] [\-l syslog\-local\-user]
.B [\-r directory]
.B [\-u user] [\-g group]
.B [\-c cookie]
.B 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Slapd
is the stand-alone LDAP daemon. It listens for LDAP connections on
any number of ports (default 389), responding
to the LDAP operations it receives over these connections.
.B slapd
is typically invoked at boot time, usually out of
.BR  /etc/rc.local .
Upon startup,
.B slapd
normally forks and disassociates itself from the invoking tty.
If configured in
.BR ETCDIR/slapd.conf ,
the
.B slapd
process will print its process ID (see
.BR getpid (2))
to a 
.B .pid
file, as well as the command line options during invocation to an
.B .args
file (see 
.BR slapd.conf (5)).
If the
.B \-d
flag is given, even with a zero argument,
.B slapd
will not fork and disassociate from the invoking tty.
.LP
.B Slapd
can be configured to provide replicated service for a database with
the help of
.BR slurpd ,
the standalone LDAP update replication daemon.
See
.BR slurpd (8)
for details.
.LP
See the "OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" for more details on
.BR slapd .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-4
Listen on IPv4 addresses only.
.TP
.B \-6
Listen on IPv6 addresses only.
.TP
.B \-T {a|c|d|i|p|t}
Run in Tool mode. The additional argument selects whether to run as
slapadd, slapcat, slapdn, slapindex, slappasswd, or slatest. This option 
should be the first option specified when it is used. Any remaining options 
will be interpreted by the corresponding slap tool program. Note that these 
tool programs will usually be symbolic links to slapd. This option is provided 
for situations where symbolic links are not provided or not usable.
.TP
.BI \-d " debug\-level"
Turn on debugging as defined by
.I debug\-level.
If this option is specified, even with a zero argument,
.B slapd
will not fork or disassociate from the invoking terminal.  Some general
operation and status messages are printed for any value of \fIdebug\-level\fP.
\fIdebug\-level\fP is taken as a bit string, with each bit corresponding to a
different kind of debugging information.  See <ldap.h> for details.
Remember that if you turn on packet logging, packets containing bind passwords
will be output, so if you redirect the log to a logfile, that file should
be read-protected.
.TP
.BI \-s " syslog\-level"
This option tells
.B slapd
at what level debugging statements should be logged to the
.BR syslog (8)
facility.
.TP
.BI \-n " service\-name"
Specifies the service name for logging and other purposes.  Defaults
to basename of argv[0], i.e.: "slapd".
.TP
.BI \-l " syslog\-local\-user"
Selects the local user of the
.BR syslog (8)
facility. Value can be 
.BR LOCAL0 , 
through
.BR LOCAL7 ,
as well as
.B USER
and
.BR DAEMON .
The default is
.BR LOCAL4 .
However, this option is only permitted on systems that support
local users with the 
.BR syslog (8)
facility.
.TP
.BI \-f " slapd\-config\-file"
Specifies the slapd configuration file. The default is
.BR ETCDIR/slapd.conf .
.TP
.BI \-h " URLlist"
.B slapd
will by default serve
.B ldap:///
(LDAP over TCP on all interfaces on default LDAP port).  That is, 
it will bind using INADDR_ANY and port 389.
The
.B \-h
option may be used to specify LDAP (and other scheme) URLs to serve.
For example, if slapd is given
.BR "\-h \(dqldap://127.0.0.1:9009/ ldaps:/// ldapi:///\(dq" , 
it will listen on 127.0.0.1:9009 for LDAP, 0.0.0.0:636 for LDAP over TLS,
and LDAP over IPC (Unix domain sockets).  Host 0.0.0.0 represents
INADDR_ANY (any interface).
A space separated list of URLs is expected.  The URLs should be of
LDAP (ldap://) or LDAP over TLS (ldaps://) or LDAP over IPC (ldapi://)
scheme without a DN or other optional parameters, except an experimental
extension to indicate the permissions of the underlying listeners.
Support for the latter two schemes depends on selected configuration 
options.  Hosts may be specified by name or IPv4 and IPv6 address formats.
Ports, if specified, must be numeric.  The default ldap:// port is 389
and the default ldaps:// port is 636.
The socket permissions for LDAP over IPC are indicated by
"x-mod=-rwxrwxrwx", "x-mod=0777" or "x-mod=777", where any 
of the "rwx" can be "-" to suppress the related permission (note, 
however, that sockets only honor the "w" permission), while any 
of the "7" can be any legal octal digit, according to chmod(1).
While LDAP over IPC requires write permissions on the socket to allow
any operation, the other listeners can take advantage of the "x-mod"
extension to apply rough limitations to users, e.g. allow read operations
("r", which applies to search and compare), write operations ("w", 
which applies to add, delete, modify and modrdn), and execute operations
("x", which means bind is required).
"User" permissions apply to bound users, while "other" apply
to anonymous users.
.TP
.BI \-r " directory"
Specifies a chroot "jail" directory.  slapd will
.BR chdir (2)
then
.BR chroot (2)
to this directory after opening listeners but before reading
any configuration file or initializing any backend.
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
.B slapd
will run slapd with the specified user name or id, and that user's
supplementary group access list as set with initgroups(3).  The group ID
is also changed to this user's gid, unless the -g option is used to
override.
.TP
.BI \-g " group"
.B slapd
will run with the specified group name or id.
.LP
Note that on some systems, running as a non-privileged user will prevent
passwd back-ends from accessing the encrypted passwords.  Note also that
any shell back-ends will run as the specified non-privileged user.
.TP
.BI \-c " cookie"
This option provides a cookie for the syncrepl replication consumer.
The cookie is a comma separated list of name=value pairs.
Currently supported syncrepl cookie fields are
.B csn,
.B sid,
and
.B rid.
.B csn
is the commit sequence number received by a previous synchronization
and represents the state of the consumer replica content which the
syncrepl engine will synchronize to the current provider content.
.B sid
is the identity of the per-scope session log with which the 
provider server can process this syncrepl request to reduce
synchronization traffic.
.B rid
identifies a replication thread within the consumer server
and is used to find the syncrepl specification in 
.BR slapd.conf (5)
having the matching replication identifier in its definition.
.SH EXAMPLES
To start 
.I slapd
and have it fork and detach from the terminal and start serving
the LDAP databases defined in the default config file, just type:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	LIBEXECDIR/slapd
.ft
.fi
.LP
To start 
.B slapd
with an alternate configuration file, and turn
on voluminous debugging which will be printed on standard error, type:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	LIBEXECDIR/slapd -f /var/tmp/slapd.conf -d 255
.ft
.fi
.LP
To test whether the configuration file is correct or not, type:
.LP
.nf
.ft tt
	LIBEXECDIR/slapd -Tt
.ft
.fi
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd.access (5),
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR slapcat (8),
.BR slapdn (8),
.BR slapindex (8),
.BR slappasswd (8),
.BR slaptest (8),
.BR slurpd (8)
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH BUGS
See http://www.openldap.org/its/
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
