.TH LDAP.CONF 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2008 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.UC 6
.SH NAME
ldap.conf, .ldaprc \- ldap configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/ldap.conf, .ldaprc
.SH DESCRIPTION
If the environment variable \fBLDAPNOINIT\fP is defined, all
defaulting is disabled.
.LP
The
.I ldap.conf
configuration file is used to set system-wide defaults to be applied when
running
.I ldap
clients.
.LP
Users may create an optional configuration file,
.I ldaprc
or
.IR .ldaprc ,
in their home directory which will be used to override the system-wide
defaults file.
The file
.I ldaprc
in the current working directory is also used.
.LP
.LP
Additional configuration files can be specified using
the \fBLDAPCONF\fP and \fBLDAPRC\fP environment variables.
\fBLDAPCONF\fP may be set to the path of a configuration file.  This
path can be absolute or relative to the current working directory.
The \fBLDAPRC\fP, if defined, should be the basename of a file
in the current working directory or in the user's home directory.
.LP
Environmental variables may also be used to augment the file based defaults.
The name of the variable is the option name with an added prefix of \fBLDAP\fP.
For example, to define \fBBASE\fP via the environment, set the variable
\fBLDAPBASE\fP to the desired value.
.LP
Some options are user\-only.  Such options are ignored if present
in the
.I ldap.conf
(or file specified by
.BR LDAPCONF ).
.SH OPTIONS
The configuration options are case-insensitive;
their value, on a case by case basis, may be case-sensitive.
The different configuration options are:
.TP
.B URI <ldap[s]://[name[:port]] ...>
Specifies the URI(s) of an LDAP server(s) to which the
.I LDAP 
library should connect.  The URI scheme may be either
.B ldap
or
.B ldaps 
which refer to LDAP over TCP and LDAP over SSL (TLS) respectively.
Each server's name can be specified as a
domain-style name or an IP address literal.  Optionally, the
server's name can followed by a ':' and the port number the LDAP
server is listening on.  If no port number is provided, the default
port for the scheme is used (389 for ldap://, 636 for ldaps://).
A space separated list of URIs may be provided.
.TP
.B BASE <base>
Specifies the default base DN to use when performing ldap operations.
The base must be specified as a Distinguished Name in LDAP format.
.TP
.B BINDDN <dn>
Specifies the default bind DN to use when performing ldap operations.
The bind DN must be specified as a Distinguished Name in LDAP format.
This is a user\-only option.
.TP
.B HOST <name[:port] ...>
Specifies the name(s) of an LDAP server(s) to which the
.I LDAP 
library should connect.  Each server's name can be specified as a
domain-style name or an IP address and optionally followed by a ':' and
the port number the ldap server is listening on.  A space separated
list of hosts may be provided.
.B HOST
is deprecated in favor of
.BR URI .
.TP
.B PORT <port>
Specifies the default port used when connecting to LDAP servers(s).
The port may be specified as a number.
.B PORT
is deprecated in favor of
.BR URI.
.TP
.B REFERRALS <on/true/yes/off/false/no>
Specifies if the client should automatically follow referrals returned
by LDAP servers.
The default is on.
Note that the command line tools
.BR ldapsearch (1)
&co always override this option.
.TP
.B SIZELIMIT <integer>
Specifies a size limit to use when performing searches.  The
number should be a non-negative integer.  \fISIZELIMIT\fP of zero (0)
specifies unlimited search size.
.TP
.B TIMELIMIT <integer>
Specifies a time limit to use when performing searches.  The
number should be a non-negative integer.  \fITIMELIMIT\fP of zero (0)
specifies unlimited search time to be used.
.TP
.B DEREF <when>
Specifies how alias dereferencing is done when performing a search. The
.B <when>
can be specified as one of the following keywords:
.RS
.TP
.B never
Aliases are never dereferenced. This is the default.
.TP
.B searching
Aliases are dereferenced in subordinates of the base object, but
not in locating the base object of the search.
.TP
.B finding
Aliases are only dereferenced when locating the base object of the search.
.TP
.B always
Aliases are dereferenced both in searching and in locating the base object
of the search.
.RE
.SH SASL OPTIONS
If OpenLDAP is built with Simple Authentication and Security Layer support,
there are more options you can specify.
.TP
.B SASL_MECH <mechanism>
Specifies the SASL mechanism to use.
This is a user\-only option.
.TP
.B SASL_REALM <realm>
Specifies the SASL realm.
This is a user\-only option.
.TP
.B SASL_AUTHCID <authcid>
Specifies the authentication identity.
This is a user\-only option.
.TP
.B SASL_AUTHZID <authcid>
Specifies the proxy authorization identity.
This is a user\-only option.
.TP
.B SASL_SECPROPS <properties>
Specifies Cyrus SASL security properties. The 
.B <properties>
can be specified as a comma-separated list of the following:
.RS
.TP
.B none
(without any other properties) causes the properties
defaults ("noanonymous,noplain") to be cleared.
.TP
.B noplain
disables mechanisms susceptible to simple passive attacks.
.TP
.B noactive
disables mechanisms susceptible to active attacks.
.TP
.B nodict
disables mechanisms susceptible to passive dictionary attacks.
.TP
.B noanonymous
disables mechanisms which support anonymous login.
.TP
.B forwardsec
requires forward secrecy between sessions.
.TP
.B passcred
requires mechanisms which pass client credentials (and allows
mechanisms which can pass credentials to do so).
.TP
.B minssf=<factor> 
specifies the minimum acceptable
.I security strength factor
as an integer approximating the effective key length used for
encryption.  0 (zero) implies no protection, 1 implies integrity
protection only, 56 allows DES or other weak ciphers, 112
allows triple DES and other strong ciphers, 128 allows RC4,
Blowfish and other modern strong ciphers.  The default is 0.
.TP
.B maxssf=<factor> 
specifies the maximum acceptable
.I security strength factor
as an integer (see
.B minssf
description).  The default is
.BR INT_MAX .
.TP
.B maxbufsize=<factor> 
specifies the maximum security layer receive buffer
size allowed.  0 disables security layers.  The default is 65536.
.RE
.SH TLS OPTIONS
If OpenLDAP is built with Transport Layer Security support, there
are more options you can specify.  These options are used when an
.B ldaps:// URI
is selected (by default or otherwise) or when the application
negotiates TLS by issuing the LDAP Start TLS operation.
.TP
.B TLS_CACERT <filename>
Specifies the file that contains certificates for all of the Certificate
Authorities the client will recognize.
.TP
.B TLS_CACERTDIR <path>
Specifies the path of a directory that contains Certificate Authority
certificates in separate individual files. The
.B TLS_CACERT
is always used before
.B TLS_CACERTDIR.
.TP
.B TLS_CERT <filename>
Specifies the file that contains the client certificate.
This is a user\-only option.
.TP
.B TLS_KEY <filename>
Specifies the file that contains the private key that matches the certificate
stored in the
.B TLS_CERT
file. Currently, the private key must not be protected with a password, so
it is of critical importance that the key file is protected carefully. This
is a user\-only option.
.TP
.B TLS_CIPHER_SUITE <cipher-suite-spec>
Specifies acceptable cipher suite and preference order.
<cipher-suite-spec> should be a cipher specification for OpenSSL,
e.g., HIGH:MEDIUM:+SSLv2.
.TP
.B TLS_RANDFILE <filename>
Specifies the file to obtain random bits from when /dev/[u]random is
not available. Generally set to the name of the EGD/PRNGD socket.
The environment variable RANDFILE can also be used to specify the filename.
.TP
.B TLS_REQCERT <level>
Specifies what checks to perform on server certificates in a TLS session,
if any. The
.B <level>
can be specified as one of the following keywords:
.RS
.TP
.B never
The client will not request or check any server certificate.
.TP
.B allow
The server certificate is requested. If no certificate is provided,
the session proceeds normally. If a bad certificate is provided, it will
be ignored and the session proceeds normally.
.TP
.B try
The server certificate is requested. If no certificate is provided,
the session proceeds normally. If a bad certificate is provided,
the session is immediately terminated.
.TP
.B demand | hard
These keywords are equivalent. The server certificate is requested. If no
certificate is provided, or a bad certificate is provided, the session
is immediately terminated. This is the default setting.
.RE
.TP
.B TLS_CRLCHECK <level>
Specifies if the Certificate Revocation List (CRL) of the CA should be 
used to verify if the server certificates have not been revoked. This
requires
.B TLS_CACERTDIR
parameter to be set.
.B <level>
can be specified as one of the following keywords:
.RS
.TP
.B none
No CRL checks are performed
.TP
.B peer
Check the CRL of the peer certificate
.TP
.B all
Check the CRL for a whole certificate chain
.RE
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
LDAPNOINIT
disable all defaulting
.TP
LDAPCONF
path of a configuration file
.TP
LDAPRC
basename of ldaprc file in $HOME or $CWD
.TP
LDAP<option-name>
Set <option-name> as from ldap.conf
.SH FILES
.TP
.I  ETCDIR/ldap.conf
system-wide ldap configuration file
.TP
.I  $HOME/ldaprc, $HOME/.ldaprc
user ldap configuration file
.TP
.I  $CWD/ldaprc
local ldap configuration file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap (3),
.BR openssl (1),
.BR sasl (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Kurt Zeilenga, The OpenLDAP Project
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
