.TH LDAPSEARCHPREFS.CONF 5 "20 August 2000" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapsearchprefs.conf \- configuration file for LDAP search preference routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/ldapsearchprefs.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The file ETCDIR/ldapsearchprefs.conf contains information used by
the LDAP search preference routines (see ldap-searchpref(3)).  Blank lines
and lines that have a first character of `#' are treated as comments and
ignored.  Non-comment lines contain one or more tokens.  Tokens are
separated by white space, and double quotes `"' can be used to include
white space inside a token.
.LP
Search preferences are typically used by LDAP-based client programs to
specify what a user may search for, which attributes are searched, and
which options are available to the user.
.LP
The first non-commment line specifies the version of the template
information and must contain the token
.I Version
followed by an integer version number.  E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    Version 1
.ft
.fi
The current version is
.I 1,
so the above example is always the correct opening line.
.LP
The remainder of the file consists of one or more search preference
configurations.
The first line of a search preference is a human-readable name for the
type of object being searched for, e.g. "People" or "Organizations".
This name is stored in the
.I so_objtypeprompt
member of the
.I ldap_searchobj
structure.
E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    "People"
.ft
.fi
specifies a label for a search preference designed to find X.500 
entries for People.
.LP
The next line specifies a list of options for this search object.  The
only option currently allowed is "internal" which means that this search
object should not be presented directly to a user.  Options are placed in the
.I so_options
member of the
.I ldap_searchobj
structure and can be tested using the LDAP_IS_SEARCHOBJ_OPTION_SET() macro.
Use "" if no special options are desired.
.LP
The next line specifes a label
to use for "Fewer Choices" (for lack of a better term) searches.  "Fewer
Choices" searches are those where the user's input is fed to the
ldap_filter routines to determine an appropriate filter to use.  This
contrasts with explicitly-constructed LDAP filters, or "More Choices"
searches, where the user can explicitly construct an LDAP filter.  The
"Fewer" and "More Choices" terms derive from the maX.500, waX.500 and
xax500 directory user agents, which offer two configurations of their
"Find Entry" dialogs - one where the user types a search string, and the
client code attempts to find reasonable filter(s) to use in searching
("Fewer Choices"), and one where the user can select from several pop-up
menus which allow complete specification of the search to be performed
("More Choices").
.LP
For example:
.nf
.ft B
    "Search For:"
.ft
.fi
can be used by LDAP client programs to label the field into which the
user can type a "Fewer Choices" search.  This information is stored in
the
.I so_prompt
member of the
.I ldap_searchobj
structure.

.LP
The next line specifies an LDAP filter prefix to append to all "More Choices"
searched.  This is typically used to limit the types of entries returned
to those containing a specific object class.  For example:
.nf
.ft B
    "(&(objectClass=person)"
.ft
.fi
would cause only entries containing the object class "person" to be
returned by a search.  Note that parentheses may be unbalanced here, since
this is a filter prefix, not an entire filter.  This information is
stored in the
.I so_filterprefix
member of the 
.I ldap_searchobj
structure.

.LP
The next line is an LDAP filter tag (see ldap-filter(3)) which specifies
the set of LDAP filters to be applied for "Fewer Choices" searching.
The line
.nf
.ft B
    "xax500-People"
.ft
.fi
would tell the client program to use the set of LDAP filters from the
ldap filter configuration file tagged "xax500-People".  This information is
stored in the
.I so_filtertag
member of the
.I ldap_searchobj
structure.

.LP
The next line specifies an LDAP attribute to retrieve to help the user
choose when several entries match the search terms specified.  For example:
.nf
.ft B
    "title"
.ft
.fi
specifies that if more than one entry matches the search criteria, the
client program should retrieve the "title" attribute that and present
that to the user to allow them to select the appropriate entry.
The next line specifies a label for the above attribute, e.g.
.nf
.ft B
    "Title:"
.ft
.fi
The above information is stored in the
.I so_defaultselectattr
and
.I so_defaultselecttext
members of the
.I ldap_searchobj
structure.  Note that these are defaults, and are intended to be overridden
by the sa_selectattr and sa_selecttext fields of the ldap_searchattr
data structure (see below).

.LP
The next line specifies the scope of the LDAP search to be performed.
Acceptable values are subtree, onelevel, and base.  See ldap(3) for
more information.

.LP
The next section is a list of "More Choices" search options, terminated by
a line containing only the string "END".  Example:
.nf
.ft B
  "Common Name"	cn	11111	""	""
  "Surname"	sn	11111	""	""
  "Business Phone"	"telephoneNumber"	11101	""	""
  END
.ft
.fi

Each line represents one method of searching.  In this example, there
are three ways of searching - by Common Name, by Surname, and by
Business Phone number.  The first field is the text which should be
displayed to user.  The second field is the attribute which will be
searched.  The third field is a bitmap which specifies which of the
match types (discussed below) are permitted for this search type.  A
"1" value in a given bit position indicates that a particular
match type is valid, and a "0" indicates that is it not valid.  The
fourth and fifth fields are, respectively, the select attribute name
(corresponding to the sa_selectattr field of the ldap_searchattr data
structure) and on-screen name for the select attribute (corresponding
to the sa_selecttext field).  These values are intended to override
the so_defaultselectattr and so_defaultselecttext values, described
above.  If blank, the client software should use the default values above.

.LP
The next section is a list of search match options, terminated by a
a line containing only the string "END".  Example:
.nf
.ft B
  "exactly matches"	"(%a=%v))"
  "approximately matches"	"(%a~=%v))"
  "starts with"	"(%a=%v*))"
  "ends with"	"(%a=*%v))"
  "contains"	"(%a=*%v*))"
  END
.ft
.fi
In this example, there are five ways of refining the search.  For each method,
there is an LDAP filter suffix which is appended to the ldap filter thus
far constructed.  The routine ldap_build_filter() may be used to construct
the whole filter.  It substitutes the appropriate attribute for "%a" in the
filter, and a value (generally, something the user types) for "%v".

.SH EXAMPLE
The following example illustrates one possible configuration of search
preferences for "people".
.LP
.nf
# Version number
Version 1
# Name for this search object
People
# Label to place before text box user types in
"Search For:"
# Filter prefix to append to all "More Choices" searches
"(&(objectClass=person)"
# Tag to use for "Fewer Choices" searches - from ldapfilter.conf file
"xax500-People"
# If a search results in > 1 match, retrieve this attribute to help
# user disambiguate the entries...
multilineDescription
# ...and label it with this string:
"Description"
# Search scope to use when searching
subtree
# Follows a list of "More Choices" search options.  Format is:
# Label, attribute, select-bitmap, extra attr display name, extra attr ldap name
# If last two are null, "Fewer Choices" name/attributes used
"Common Name"                   cn                 11111  ""  ""
"Surname"                       sn                 11111  ""  ""
"Business Phone"                "telephoneNumber"  11101  ""  ""
"E-Mail Address"                "mail"             11111  ""  ""
"Uniqname"                      "uid"              11111  ""  ""
END
# Match types
"exactly matches"               "(%a=%v))"
"approximately matches"         "(%a~=%v))"
"starts with"                   "(%a=%v*))"
"ends with"                     "(%a=*%v))"
"contains"                      "(%a=*%v*))"
END
.fi
.LP
In this example, the user may search for People.  For "fewer choices" searching,
the tag for the ldap filter config file is "xax500-People".
.SH FILES
ETCDIR/ldapsearchprefs.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3).
.BR ldap-searchprefs (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
