.TH LDAPTEMPLATES.CONF 5 "20 August 2000" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldaptemplates.conf \- configuration file for LDAP display template routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/ldaptemplates.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The file ETCDIR/ldaptemplates.conf contains information used by
the LDAP display templates routines (see ldap-disptmpl(3)).  Blank lines
and lines that have a first character of `#' are treated as comments and
ignored.  Non-comment lines contain one or more tokens.  Tokens are
separated by white space, and double quotes `"' can be used to include
white space inside a token.
.LP
The first non-commment line specifies the version of the template
information and must contain the token
.I Version
followed by an integer version number.  E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    Version 1
.ft
.fi
The current version is
.I 1,
so the above example is always the correct opening line.
.LP
The remainder of the file consists of one or more display templates.
The first two lines of the display template should each contain a single
token that specifies singular and plural names for the template that are
suitable for human consumption.  These names are stored in the
.I dt_name
and
.I dt_pluralname
members of the
.I ldap_disptmpl
structure.
E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    "Person"
    "People"
.ft
.fi
specifies appropriate names for a template designed to display X.500
person information.
.LP
The next line specifies the name of the icon or similar element that is
associated with this template.  E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    "person icon"
.ft
.fi
.LP
The next line is a blank-separated list of template options.  "" can be
used if no options are desired.  Available options are:  "addable" (it
is appropriate to allow entries of this type to be added), "modrdn" (it
is appropriate to offer the "modify rdn" operation), "altview" (this
template is merely an alternate view of another template, typically
used for templates pointed to be a linkaction item).  E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    "addable" "modrdn"
.ft
.fi
.LP
The next portion of the template is a list of X.500 object classes that
is used to determine whether the template should be used to display a
given entry.  The object class information consists of one or more lines,
followed by a terminating line that contains the single token
.I END.
Each line contains one or more object class names, all of which must be
present in an X.500 entry for the
.I ldap_oc2template(3)
routine to return a pointer to this template.
The object class information is stored in the
.I dt_oclist
member of the
.I ldap_disptmpl
structure.  Multiple lines can be used to associate more than one set
of object classes with a given template.  E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    umichPerson
    lblPerson
    END
.ft
.fi
means that the template is appropriate for display of umichPerson entries or
lblPerson entries.
.LP
Next next line after the object class list is the name of the attribute
to authenticate as to make changes (use "" if it is appropriate to
authenticate as the entry itself).  E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    "owner"
.ft
.fi
.LP
The next line is the default attribute to use when naming a new entry.
E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    "cn"
.ft
.fi
.LP
The next line is the default location under which new entries are created.
It should be a string-represented Distringuished Name. E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    "dc=OpenLDAP, dc=org"
.ft
.fi
.LP
The next section is a list of rules used to assign default values to new
entries.  The list should be terminated with a line that contains the
single token
.I END.
Each line in this section should either begin with the token
.I constant
and be followed by the name of the attribute and a constant value to
assign, or the line should begin with
.I addersdn
followed by the name of an attribute whose value will be the DN of the
person who has authenticated to add the entry.
E.g.,
.nf
.ft B
    constant	associatedDomain	umich.edu
    addersdn	seeAlso
    END
.ft
.fi
.LP
The last portion of the template is a list of items to display.  It
consists of one or more lines, followed by a terminating line that
contains the single token
.I END.
Each line is must begin with the token
.I samerow
or the token
.I item
.LP
It is assumed that each item appears on a row by itself unless it was
preceded by a
.I samerow
line (in which case it should be displayed on the same line as the
previous item, if possible).  Lines that begin with
.I samerow
should not have any other tokens on them.
.LP
Lines that begin with
.I item
must have at least three more tokens on them:  an item type, a label,
and an attribute name.  Any extra tokens are taken as extra arguments
and are stored in the
.I ti_args
member of the
.I ldap_tmplitem
structure.
.LP
The item type token must be one of the following strings:
.I cis
(for case ignore string attributes),
.I mls
(for multiline string attributes),
.I mail
(for RFC-822 conformant mail address attributes),
.I dn
(for distinguished name pointer attributes),
.I bool
(for Boolean attributes),
.I jpeg
(for JPEG photo attributes),
.I jpegbtn
(for a button that will retrieve and show a JPEG photo attribute),
.I fax
(for FAX T.4 format image attributes),
.I faxbtn
(for a button that will retrieve and show a FAX photo attribute),
.I audiobtn
(for audio attributes),
.I time
(for UTC time attributes),
.I date
(for UTC time attributes where only the date portion should be shown),
.I url
(for labeled Uniform Resource Locator attributes),
.I searchact
(to define an action that will do a directory search for other entries),
.I linkact
(to define an action which is a link to another display template).  See
the ACTIONS section below for more information on search and link actions.
.LP
An example of an item line for the drink attribute (displayed with
label "Favorite Beverage"):
.nf
.ft B
    item cis	"Favorite Beverage"	drink
.ft
.fi
.SH ACTIONS
This section has not been written yet.  Sorry!
.SH EXAMPLE
The following template configuration file contains two templates, one
for display of people entries and one for display of contries.
.nf
.ft B
    #
    # LDAP display templates
    #
    # Version must be 1 for now
    #
    Version 1

    #
    # Person template
    "Person"
    "People"

    # name of the icon that is associated with this template
    "person icon"

    # blank-separated list of template options ("" for none)
    "addable"

    #
    # objectclass list
    person
    END

    #
    # name of attribute to authenticate as ("" means auth as this entry)
    ""

    #
    # default attribute name to use when forming RDN of a new entry
    #
    cn

    #
    # default location when adding new entries (DN; "" means no default)
    "dc=OpenLDAP, dc=Org"

    #
    # rules used to define default values for new entries
    END

    #
    # list of items for display
    item jpegbtn	"View Photo"		jpegPhoto	"Next Photo"
    item audiobtn	"Play Sound"		audio
    item cis	"Also Known As"		cn
    item cis	"Title"			title
    item mls	"Work Address"		postalAddress
    item cis	"Work Phone"		telephoneNumber
    item cis	"Fax Number"		facsimileTelephoneNumber
    item mls	"Home Address"		homePostalAddress
    item cis	"Home Phone"		homePhone
    item cis	"User ID"		uid
    item mail	"E-Mail Address"	mail
    item cis	"Description"		description
    item cis	"Favorite Beverage"	drink
    item dn		"See Also"		seeAlso
    END
.ft
.fi
.SH FILES
ETCDIR/ldaptemplates.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_disptmpl (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
