.TH LDAPFILTER.CONF 5 "22 September 1998" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapfilter.conf \- configuration file for LDAP get filter routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/ldapfilter.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The file
.B ETCDIR/ldapfilter.conf
contains information used by
the LDAP get filter routines (see
.BR ldap-getfilter (3)).
Blank lines and
lines that have a first character of `#' are treated as comments and
ignored.  The configuration information consists of lines that contain
one, two, three, four, or five tokens.  Tokens are separated
by white space, and double quotes `"' can be used to include white space
inside a token.
.LP
The file consists of a sequence of one or more filter sets.  A filter
set begins with a line containing a single token called a
.I tag.
The
.I tag
is used in the
.BR ldap_getfirstfilter (3)
call to select the filter set.
.LP
The filter set consists of a sequence of one or more filter lists.  The
first line in a filter list must contain four or five tokens: the
.I value pattern,
the
.I delimiter list,
a
.I filter template,
a
.I match description,
and an optional
.I search scope.
The
.I value pattern
is a regular expression that is matched against the
.B value
passed to the
.BR ldap_getfirstfilter (3)
call to select the filter list.
.LP
The
.I delimiter list
is a list of characters (in the form of a single string) that are used to
break the
.B value
into distinct words. 
.LP
The
.I filter template
is used to construct an LDAP filter (it is described further below)
.LP
The
.I match description
is returned to the called along with a filter as a piece of text that can
be used to describe the sort of LDAP search that took place.  It should
correctly compete both of the following phrases:
"One
.I match description
match was found for..."
and
"Three
.I match description
matches were found for...."
.LP
The
.I search scope
is optional, and should be one of "base", "onelevel", or "subtree".  If
.I search scope
is not provided, the default is "subtree".
.LP
The remaining lines of the filter list should contain two or three tokens,
a
.I filter template,
a
.I match description
and an optional
.I search scope
(as described above).
.LP
The
.I filter template
is similar in concept to a printf(3) style format
string.  Everything is taken literally except for the character
sequences:
.nf
.ft I
    %v
    %v$
    %vN
    %vM-N
    %vN-
.ft
.fi
A plain
.I %v
means to substitute the entire
.B value
string in place of the
.I %v.
.I %v$
means substitute the last word in this spot.
A
.I %vN,
where N is a single digit 1-9, means substitute word N in this spot.
Words are number from left to right within the value starting at 1.
A
.I %vM-N,
where M and N are both single digits 1-9, means substitute the indicated
sequence of words.
A
.I %vN-,
where N is again a single digit 1-9, means substitute word N through the
last word in
.B value.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following ldap filter configuration file contains two filter sets
.RB ( finger
and
.B go500gw
.BR onelevel ),
each of which contains four filter lists.
.LP
.nf
  # ldap filter file
  #
  finger
    "="                " "     "%v"                    "arbitrary filter"

    "[0-9][0-9\-]*"    " "     "(telephoneNumber=*%v)" "phone number"

    "@"                " "     "(mail=%v)"             "email address"

    "^.[. _].*"       ". _"   "(cn=%v1* %v2-)"        "first initial"

    ".*[. _].$"        ". _"   "(cn=%v1-*)"            "last initial"

    "[. _]"            ". _"   "(|(sn=%v1-)(cn=%v1-))"        "exact"
                               "(|(sn~=%v1-)(cn~=%v1-))"      "approximate"

    ".*"               ". "    "(|(cn=%v1)(sn=%v1)(uid=%v1))" "exact"
                               "(|(cn~=%v1)(sn~=%v1))"        "approximate"

  "go500gw onelevel"
    "^..$"  " "   "(|(o=%v)(c=%v)(l=%v)(co=%v))"       "exact" "onelevel"
                  "(|(o~=%v)(c~=%v)(l~=%v)(co~=%v))"   "approximate" "onelevel"

    " "     " "   "(|(o=%v)(l=%v)(co=%v)"       "exact"        "onelevel"
                  "(|(o~=%v)(l~=%v)(co~=%v)"    "approximate"  "onelevel"

    "\."    " "   "(associatedDomain=%v)"       "exact"        "onelevel"

    ".*"    " "   "(|(o=%v)(l=%v)(co=%v)"       "exact"        "onelevel"
                  "(|(o~=%v)(l~=%v)(co~=%v)"    "approximate"  "onelevel"
.fi
.LP
The call
.ft B
ldap_getfirstfilter( lfdp, "finger", "m.smith" );
.ft
will return an LDAPFiltInfo structure with the
.B lfi_filter
member containing the string
.I (cn=m* smith)
with the
.B lfi_desc
member containing the string
.I first initial,
and
.B lfi_scope
containing the value LDAP_SCOPE_SUBTREE.
.LP
The call
.ft B
ldap_getfirstfilter( lfdp, "go500gw onelevel", "umich" );
.ft
will return an LDAPFiltInfo structure with the
.B lfi_filter
member containing the string
.I (|(o=umich)(l=umich)(co=umich)
with the
.B lfi_desc
member containing the string
.I exact,
and
.B lfi_scope
containing the value LDAP_SCOPE_ONELEVEL.
.SH FILES
ETCDIR/ldapfilter.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_getfilter (3)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
