.TH SLAPD-BDB 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 1998-2004 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapd-bdb \- BDB backend to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The BDB backend to
.BR slapd (8)
is the recommended backend for a normal slapd database.
However, it takes more care than with the LDBM backend to configure
it properly.
It uses the Sleepycat Berkeley DB (BDB) package to store data.
It makes extensive use of indexing and caching to speed data access.
.LP
It is noted that these options are intended to complement
Berkeley DB configuration options set in the environment's
.B DB_CONFIG
file.  See Berkeley DB documentation for details on
.B DB_CONFIG
configuration options.
Where there is overlap, settings in
.B DB_CONFIG
take precedence.
.SH CONFIGURATION
These
.B slapd.conf
options apply to the BDB backend database.
That is, they must follow a "database bdb" line and come before any
subsequent "backend" or "database" lines.
Other database options are described in the
.BR slapd.conf (5)
manual page.
.TP
.B cachesize <integer>
Specify the size in entries of the in-memory cache maintained 
by the BDB backend database instance.
The default is 1000 entries.
.\" .TP
.\" Undocumented option, should use DB_CONFIG instead
.\" .B checkpoint <kbyte> <min>
.\" Specify the frequency for checkpointing the database transaction log.
.\" A checkpoint operation flushes the database buffers to disk and writes
.\" a checkpoint record in the log.
.\" The checkpoint will occur if either <kbyte> data has been written or
.\" <min> minutes have passed since the last checkpoint.
.\" Both arguments default to zero, in which case they are ignored.
.\" See the Berkeley DB reference guide for more details.
.\" .TP
.\" Undocumented option, should use DB_CONFIG instead
.\" .B dbnosync
.\" Specify that on-disk database contents should not be immediately
.\" synchronized with in memory changes.
.\" Enabling this option may improve performance at the expense of data
.\" security.
.TP
.B directory <directory>
Specify the directory where the BDB files containing this database and
associated indexes live.
A separate directory must be specified for each database.
The default is
.BR LOCALSTATEDIR/openldap-data .
.TP
.B dirtyread
Allow reads of modified but not yet committed data.
Usually transactions are isolated to prevent other operations from
accessing uncommitted data.
This option may improve performance, but may also return inconsistent
results if the data comes from a transaction that is later aborted.
In this case, the modified data is discarded and a subsequent search
will return a different result.
.TP
.B idlcachesize <integer>
Specify the size of the in-memory index cache, in index slots. The
default is zero. A larger value will speed up frequent searches of
indexed entries.
.TP
.B
index {<attrlist>|default} [pres,eq,approx,sub,<special>]
Specify the indexes to maintain for the given attribute (or
list of attributes).
Some attributes only support a subset of indexes.
If only an <attr> is given, the indices specified for \fBdefault\fR
are maintained.
Note that setting a default does not imply that all attributes will be
indexed.

A number of special index parameters may be specified.
The index type
.B sub
can be decomposed into
.BR subinitial ,
.BR subany ,\ and
.B subfinal
indices.
The special type
.B nolang
may be specified to disallow use of this index by language subtypes.
The special type
.B nosubtypes
may be specified to disallow use of this index by named subtypes.
Note: changing index settings requires rebuilding indices, see
.BR slapindex (8).
.TP
.B lockdetect {oldest|youngest|fewest|random|default}
Specify which transaction to abort when a deadlock is detected.
The default is the same as
.BR random .
.TP
.B mode <integer>
Specify the file protection mode that newly created database 
index files should have.
The default is 0600.
.TP
.B searchstack <depth>
Specify the depth of the stack used for search filter evaluation.
Search filters are evaluated on a stack to accommodate nested AND / OR
clauses. An individual stack is assigned to each server thread.
The depth of the stack determines how complex a filter can be
evaluated without requiring any additional memory allocation. Filters that
are nested deeper than the search stack depth will cause a separate
stack to be allocated for that particular search operation. These
allocations can have a major negative impact on server performance,
but specifying too much stack will also consume a great deal of memory.
Each search stack uses 512K bytes per level. The default stack depth
is 16, thus 8MB per thread is used.
.TP
.B shm_key <integer>
Specify a key for a shared memory BDB environment. By default the
BDB environment uses memory mapped files. If a non-zero value is
specified, it will be used as the key to identify a shared memory
region that will house the environment.
.TP
.B sessionlog <sid> <limit>
Specify a session log store for the syncrepl replication provider
server. The session log store contains information on the entries that
have been scoped out of the provider replication content identified by
.B <sid>.
The number of entries in the session log store is limited by
.B <limit>.
Excessive entries are removed from the store in the FIFO order.
Both
.B <sid>
and
.B <limit>
are non-negative integers.
.B <sid>
has no more than three decimal digits.
Refer to the "OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" for detailed information
on setting up a replicated slapd directory service using the syncrepl
replication engine and the session log store.
.B
.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.TP
DB_CONFIG
Berkeley DB configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd (8),
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR slapcat (8),
.BR slapindex (8),
Berkeley DB documentation.
