.TH SLAPD.PLUGIN 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 2002 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
slapd.plugin \- plugin configuration for slapd, the stand-alone LDAP daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.BR slapd.conf (5)
file contains configuration information for the
.BR slapd (8)
daemon. This configuration file is also used by the
.BR slurpd (8)
replication daemon and by the SLAPD tools
.BR slapadd (8),
.BR slapcat (8),
and
.BR slapindex (8).
.LP
The
.B slapd.conf
file consists of a series of global configuration options that apply to
.B slapd
as a whole (including all backends), followed by zero or more database
backend definitions that contain information specific to a backend
instance.
.LP
The general format of
.B slapd.conf
is as follows:
.LP
.nf
    # comment - these options apply to every database
    <global configuration options>
    # first database definition & configuration options
    database    <backend 1 type>
    <configuration options specific to backend 1>
    # subsequent database definitions & configuration options
    ...
.fi
.LP
If slapd is compiled with \fI--enable-slapi\fP, support for plugins
according to \fINetscape's Directory Server Plug-Ins\fP.
Version 4.0 of the API is currently implemented.
.LP
Database specific data may contain plugin information.
.LP
Arguments that should be replaced by actual text are shown in brackets <>.
The structure of the plugin directives is
.TP
.B plugin "<type> <lib_path> <init_function> [<arguments>]"
Load a plugin of the specified type for the current database.
.LP
The 
.BR <type>
can be one of
.BR preoperation ,
that is executed before processing the operation for the specified
database, 
.BR postoperation ,
that is execured after the operation for the specified database
has been processed, or
.BR extendedop .
The latter is used when executing an extended operation [FIXME].
.LP
The
.BR <libpath>
argument specifies the path to the plugin loadable object; if a relative
path is given, the object is looked for according to the underlying
dynamic loading package (libtool's ltdl is used).
.LP
The 
.BR <init_function>
argument specifies what symbol must be called when the plugin is first
loaded.
This function should register the functions provided by the plugin
for the desired operations.
The optional
.BR <arguments>
list is passed to the init function.
.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd (8),
.LP
"OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide" (http://www.OpenLDAP.org/doc/admin/)
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.
