.TH SLAPD-META 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 1998-2004 The OpenLDAP Foundation, All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See the COPYRIGHT file.
.\" Copyright 2001, Pierangelo Masarati, All rights reserved. <ando@sys-net.it>
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\"
.\" Portions of this document should probably be moved to slapd-ldap(5)
.\" and maybe manual pages for librewrite.
.\"
.SH NAME
slapd-meta \- metadirectory backend
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B meta
backend to
.BR slapd (8)
performs basic LDAP proxying with respect to a set of remote LDAP
servers, called "targets".
The information contained in these servers can be presented as
belonging to a single Directory Information Tree (DIT).
.LP
A basic knowledge of the functionality of the
.BR slapd\-ldap (5)
backend is recommended.
This backend has been designed as an enhancement of the ldap backend.
The two backends share many features (actually they also share
portions of code).
While the
.B ldap
backend is intended to proxy operations directed to a single server, the
.B meta
backend is mainly intended for proxying of multiple servers and possibly
naming context masquerading.
These features, although useful in many scenarios, may result in
excessive overhead for some applications, so its use should be
carefully considered.
In the examples section, some typical scenarios will be discussed.
.SH EXAMPLES
There are examples in various places in this document, as well as in the
slapd/back-meta/data/ directory in the OpenLDAP source tree.
.SH CONFIGURATION
These
.B slapd.conf
options apply to the META backend database.
That is, they must follow a "database meta" line and come before any
subsequent "backend" or "database" lines.
Other database options are described in the
.BR slapd.conf (5)
manual page.
.LP
Note: as with the
.B ldap
backend, operational attributes related to entry creation/modification
should not be used, as they would be passed to the target servers,
generating an error.
Moreover, it makes little sense to use such attributes in proxying, as
the proxy server doesn't actually store data, so it should have no
knowledge of such attributes.
While code to strip the modification attributes has been put in place
(and #ifdef'd), it implies unmotivated overhead.
So it is strongly recommended to set
.RS
lastmod  off
.RE
for every
.B ldap
and
.B meta
backend.
.SH SPECIAL CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES
Target configuration starts with the "uri" directive.
All the configuration directives that are not specific to targets
should be defined first for clarity, including those that are common
to all backends.
They are:
.TP
.B default-target none
This directive forces the backend to reject all those operations
that must resolve to a single target in case none or multiple
targets are selected.
They include: add, delete, modify, modrdn; compare is not included, as
well as bind since, as they don't alter entries, in case of multiple
matches an attempt is made to perform the operation on any candidate
target, with the constraint that at most one must succeed.
This directive can also be used when processing targets to mark a
specific target as default.
.TP
.B dncache-ttl {forever|disabled|<ttl>}
This directive sets the time-to-live of the DN cache.
This caches the target that holds a given DN to speed up target
selection in case multiple targets would result from an uncached
search; forever means cache never expires; disabled means no DN
caching; otherwise a valid ( > 0 ) ttl in seconds is required.
.SH TARGET SPECIFICATION
Target specification starts with a "uri" directive:
.TP
.B uri <protocol>://[<host>[:<port>]]/<naming context>
The "server" directive that was allowed in the LDAP backend (although
deprecated) has been discarded in the Meta backend.
The <protocol> part can be anything
.BR ldap_initialize (3)
accepts ({ldap|ldaps|ldapi} and variants); <host> and <port> may be
omitted, defaulting to whatever is set in /etc/ldap.conf.
The <naming context> part is mandatory.
It must end with one of the naming contexts defined for the backend,
e.g.:
.LP
.RS
.nf
suffix "\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP"
uri    "ldap://x.foo.com/dc=x,\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP"
.fi
.RE
.LP
The <naming context> part doesn't need to be unique across the targets;
it may also match one of the values of the "suffix" directive.
Multiple URIs may be defined in a single argument.  The URIs must
be separated by TABs (e.g. '\\t'), and the additional URIs must have
no <naming context> part.  This causes the underlying library
to contact the first server of the list that responds.
.TP
.B default-target [<target>]
The "default-target" directive can also be used during target specification.
With no arguments it marks the current target as the default.
The optional number marks target <target> as the default one, starting
from 1.
Target <target> must be defined.
.TP
.B binddn "<administrative DN for access control purposes>"
This directive, as in the LDAP backend, allows to define the DN that is
used to query the target server for acl checking; it should have read
access on the target server to attributes used on the proxy for acl
checking.
There is no risk of giving away such values; they are only used to
check permissions.
.TP
.B bindpw <password for access control purposes>
This directive sets the password for acl checking in conjunction
with the above mentioned "binddn" directive.
.TP
.B rebind-as-user
If this option is given, the client's bind credentials are remembered
for rebinds when chasing referrals.
.TP
.B pseudorootdn "<substitute DN in case of rootdn bind>"
This directive, if present, sets the DN that will be substituted to
the bind DN if a bind with the backend's "rootdn" succeeds.
The true "rootdn" of the target server ought not be used; an arbitrary
administrative DN should used instead.
.TP
.B pseudorootpw "<substitute password in case of rootdn bind>"
This directive sets the credential that will be used in case a bind
with the backend's "rootdn" succeeds, and the bind is propagated to
the target using the "pseudorootdn" DN.
.LP
Note: cleartext credentials must be supplied here; as a consequence,
using the pseudorootdn/pseudorootpw directives is inherently unsafe.
.TP
.B rewrite* ...
The rewrite options are described in the "REWRITING" section.
.TP
.B suffixmassage "<virtual naming context>" "<real naming context>"
All the directives starting with "rewrite" refer to the rewrite engine
that has been added to slapd.
The "suffixmassage" directive was introduced in the LDAP backend to
allow suffix massaging while proxying.
It has been obsoleted by the rewriting tools.
However, both for backward compatibility and for ease of configuration
when simple suffix massage is required, it has been preserved.
It wraps the basic rewriting instructions that perform suffix
massaging.
.LP
Note: this also fixes a flaw in suffix massaging, which operated
on (case insensitive) DNs instead of normalized DNs,
so "dc=foo, dc=com" would not match "dc=foo,dc=com".
.LP
See the "REWRITING" section.
.TP
.B map "{attribute|objectclass} [<local name>|*] {<foreign name>|*}"
This maps object classes and attributes as in the LDAP backend.
See
.BR slapd-ldap (5).
.SH SCENARIOS
A powerful (and in some sense dangerous) rewrite engine has been added
to both the LDAP and Meta backends.
While the former can gain limited beneficial effects from rewriting
stuff, the latter can become an amazingly powerful tool.
.LP
Consider a couple of scenarios first.
.LP
1) Two directory servers share two levels of naming context;
say "dc=a,dc=foo,dc=com" and "dc=b,dc=foo,dc=com".
Then, an unambiguous Meta database can be configured as:
.LP
.RS
.nf
database meta
suffix   "\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP"
uri      "ldap://a.foo.com/dc=a,\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP"
uri      "ldap://b.foo.com/dc=b,\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP"
.fi
.RE
.LP
Operations directed to a specific target can be easily resolved
because there are no ambiguities.
The only operation that may resolve to multiple targets is a search
with base "dc=foo,dc=com" and scope at least "one", which results in
spawning two searches to the targets.
.LP
2a) Two directory servers don't share any portion of naming context,
but they'd present as a single DIT
[Caveat: uniqueness of (massaged) entries among the two servers is
assumed; integrity checks risk to incur in excessive overhead and have
not been implemented].
Say we have "dc=bar,dc=org" and "o=Foo,c=US",
and we'd like them to appear as branches of "dc=foo,dc=com", say
"dc=a,dc=foo,dc=com" and "dc=b,dc=foo,dc=com".
Then we need to configure our Meta backend as:
.LP
.RS
.nf
database      meta
suffix        "dc=foo,dc=com"

uri           "ldap://a.bar.com/\fBdc=a,dc=foo,dc=com\fP"
suffixmassage "\fBdc=a,dc=foo,dc=com\fP" "dc=bar,dc=org"

uri           "ldap://b.foo.com/\fBdc=b,dc=foo,dc=com\fP"
suffixmassage "\fBdc=b,dc=foo,dc=com\fP" "o=Foo,c=US"
.fi
.RE
.LP
Again, operations can be resolved without ambiguity, although
some rewriting is required.
Notice that the virtual naming context of each target is a branch of
the database's naming context; it is rewritten back and forth when
operations are performed towards the target servers.
What "back and forth" means will be clarified later.
.LP
When a search with base "dc=foo,dc=com" is attempted, if the 
scope is "base" it fails with "no such object"; in fact, the
common root of the two targets (prior to massaging) does not
exist.
If the scope is "one", both targets are contacted with the base
replaced by each target's base; the scope is derated to "base".
In general, a scope "one" search is honored, and the scope is derated,
only when the incoming base is at most one level lower of a target's
naming context (prior to massaging).
.LP
Finally, if the scope is "sub" the incoming base is replaced
by each target's unmassaged naming context, and the scope
is not altered.
.LP
2b) Consider the above reported scenario with the two servers
sharing the same naming context:
.LP
.RS
.nf
database      meta
suffix        "\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP"

uri           "ldap://a.bar.com/\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP"
suffixmassage "\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP" "dc=bar,dc=org"

uri           "ldap://b.foo.com/\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP"
suffixmassage "\fBdc=foo,dc=com\fP" "o=Foo,c=US"
.fi
.RE
.LP
All the previous considerations hold, except that now there is
no way to unambiguously resolve a DN.
In this case, all the operations that require an unambiguous target
selection will fail unless the DN is already cached or a default
target has been set.
Practical configurations may result as a combination of all the
above scenarios.
.SH ACLs
Note on ACLs: at present you may add whatever ACL rule you desire
to to the Meta (and LDAP) backends.
However, the meaning of an ACL on a proxy may require some
considerations.
Two philosophies may be considered:
.LP
a) the remote server dictates the permissions; the proxy simply passes
back what it gets from the remote server.
.LP
b) the remote server unveils "everything"; the proxy is responsible
for protecting data from unauthorized access.
.LP
Of course the latter sounds unreasonable, but it is not.
It is possible to imagine scenarios in which a remote host discloses
data that can be considered "public" inside an intranet, and a proxy
that connects it to the internet may impose additional constraints.
To this purpose, the proxy should be able to comply with all the ACL
matching criteria that the server supports.
This has been achieved with regard to all the criteria supported by
slapd except a special subtle case (please drop me a note if you can
find other exceptions: <ando@openldap.org>).
The rule
.LP
.RS
.nf
access to dn="<dn>" attr=<attr>
       by dnattr=<dnattr> read
       by * none
.fi
.RE
.LP
cannot be matched iff the attribute that is being requested, <attr>,
is NOT <dnattr>, and the attribute that determines membership,
<dnattr>, has not been requested (e.g. in a search)
.LP
In fact this ACL is resolved by slapd using the portion of entry it
retrieved from the remote server without requiring any further
intervention of the backend, so, if the <dnattr> attribute has not
been fetched, the match cannot be assessed because the attribute is
not present, not because no value matches the requirement!
.LP
Note on ACLs and attribute mapping: ACLs are applied to the mapped
attributes; for instance, if the attribute locally known as "foo" is
mapped to "bar" on a remote server, then local ACLs apply to attribute
"foo" and are totally unaware of its remote name.
The remote server will check permissions for "bar", and the local
server will possibly enforce additional restrictions to "foo".
.\"
.\" If this section is moved, also update the reference in
.\" libraries/librewrite/RATIONALE.
.\"
.SH REWRITING
A string is rewritten according to a set of rules, called a `rewrite
context'.
The rules are based on Regular Expressions (POSIX regex) with
substring matching; basic variable substitution and map resolution 
of substrings is allowed by specific mechanisms detailed in the following.
The behavior of pattern matching/substitution can be altered by a set
of flags.
.LP
The underlying concept is to build a lightweight rewrite module
for the slapd server (initially dedicated to the LDAP backend).
.SH Passes
An incoming string is matched agains a set of rules.
Rules are made of a regex match pattern, a substitution pattern
and a set of actions, described by a set of flags.
In case of match a string rewriting is performed according to the
substitution pattern that allows to refer to substrings matched in the
incoming string.
The actions, if any, are finally performed.
The substitution pattern allows map resolution of substrings.
A map is a generic object that maps a substitution pattern to a value.
The flags are divided in "Pattern matching Flags" and "Action Flags";
the former alter the regex match pattern behaviorm while the latter
alter the action that is taken after substitution.
.SH "Pattern Matching Flags"
.TP
.B `C'
honors case in matching (default is case insensitive)
.TP
.B `R'
use POSIX Basic Regular Expressions (default is Extended)
.TP
.B `M{n}'
allow no more than
.B n
recursive passes for a specific rule; does not alter the max total count
of passes, so it can only enforce a stricter limit for a specific rule.
.SH "Action Flags"
.TP
.B `:'
apply the rule once only (default is recursive)
.TP
.B `@'
stop applying rules in case of match; the current rule is still applied 
recursively; combine with `:' to apply the current rule only once 
and then stop.
.TP
.B `#'
stop current operation if the rule matches, and issue an `unwilling to
perform' error.
.TP
.B `G{n}'
jump
.B n
rules back and forth (watch for loops!).
Note that `G{1}' is implicit in every rule.
.TP
.B `I'
ignores errors in rule; this means, in case of error, e.g. issued by a
map, the error is treated as a missed match.
The `unwilling to perform' is not overridden.
.TP
.B `U{n}'
uses
.B
n
as return code if the rule matches; the flag does not alter the recursive
behavior of the rule, so, to have it performed only once, it must be used 
in combination with `:', e.g.
.B `:U{16}'
returns the value `16' after exactly one execution of the rule, if the
pattern matches.
As a consequence, its behavior is equivalent to `@', with the return
code set to
.BR n ;
or, in other words, `@' is equivalent to `U{0}'.
By convention, the freely available codes are above 16 included;
the others are reserved.
.LP
The ordering of the flags can be significant.
For instance: `IG{2}' means ignore errors and jump two lines ahead
both in case of match and in case of error, while `G{2}I' means ignore
errors, but jump two lines ahead only in case of match.
.LP
More flags (mainly Action Flags) will be added as needed.
.SH "Pattern matching:"
See
.BR regex (7).
.SH "Substitution Pattern Syntax:"
Everything starting with `%' requires substitution;
.LP
the only obvious exception is `%%', which is left as is;
.LP
the basic substitution is `%d', where `d' is a digit;
0 means the whole string, while 1-9 is a submatch, as discussed in 
.BR regex (7);
.LP
a `%' followed by a `{' invokes an advanced substitution.
The pattern is:
.LP
.RS
`%' `{' [ <op> ] <name> `(' <substitution> `)' `}'
.RE
.LP
where <name> must be a legal name for the map, i.e.
.LP
.RS
.nf
<name> ::= [a-z][a-z0-9]* (case insensitive)
<op> ::= `>' `|' `&' `&&' `*' `**' `$'
.fi
.RE
.LP
and <substitution> must be a legal substitution
pattern, with no limits on the nesting level.
.LP
The operators are:
.TP
.B >
sub context invocation; <name> must be a legal, already defined
rewrite context name
.TP
.B |
external command invocation; <name> must refer to a legal, already
defined command name (NOT IMPL.)
.TP
.B &
variable assignment; <name> defines a variable in the running
operation structure which can be dereferenced later; operator
.B &
assigns a variable in the rewrite context scope; operator
.B &&
assigns a variable that scopes the entire session, e.g. its value
can be derefenced later by other rewrite contexts
.TP
.B *
variable dereferencing; <name> must refer to a variable that is
defined and assigned for the running operation; operator
.B *
dereferences a variable scoping the rewrite context; operator
.B **
dereferences a variable scoping the whole session, e.g. the value
is passed across rewrite contexts
.TP
.B $
parameter dereferencing; <name> must refer to an existing parameter;
the idea is to make some run-time parameters set by the system
available to the rewrite engine, as the client host name, the bind DN
if any, constant parameters initialized at config time, and so on;
no parameter is currently set by either 
.B back\-ldap
or
.BR back\-meta ,
but constant parameters can be defined in the configuration file
by using the
.B rewriteParam
directive.
.LP
Substitution escaping has been delegated to the `%' symbol, 
which is used instead of `\e' in string substitution patterns
because `\e' is already escaped by slapd's low level parsing routines;
as a consequence, 
.BR regex (7)
escaping requires two `\e' symbols, e.g. `\fB.*\e.foo\e.bar\fP' must
be written as `\fB.*\e\e.foo\e\e.bar\fP'.
.\"
.\" The symbol can be altered at will by redefining the related macro in
.\" "rewrite-int.h".
.\"
.SH "Rewrite context:"
A rewrite context is a set of rules which are applied in sequence.
The basic idea is to have an application initialize a rewrite
engine (think of Apache's mod_rewrite ...) with a set of rewrite
contexts; when string rewriting is required, one invokes the
appropriate rewrite context with the input string and obtains the
newly rewritten one if no errors occur.
.LP
Each basic server operation is associated to a rewrite context;
they are divided in two main groups: client \-> server and
server \-> client rewriting.
.LP
client -> server:
.LP
.RS
.nf
(default)            if defined and no specific context 
                     is available
bindDN               bind
searchBase           search
searchFilter         search
searchFilterAttrDN   search
compareDN            compare
compareAttrDN        compare AVA
addDN                add
addAttrDN            add AVA
modifyDN             modify
modifyAttrDN         modify AVA
modrDN               modrdn
newSuperiorDN        modrdn
deleteDN             delete
exopPasswdDN         passwd exop DN if proxy
.fi
.RE
.LP
server -> client:
.LP
.RS
.nf
searchResult         search (only if defined; no default;
                     acts on DN and DN-syntax attributes 
                     of search results)
searchAttrDN         search AVA
matchedDN            all ops (only if applicable)
.fi
.RE
.LP
.SH "Basic configuration syntax"
.TP
.B rewriteEngine { on | off }
If `on', the requested rewriting is performed; if `off', no
rewriting takes place (an easy way to stop rewriting without
altering too much the configuration file).
.TP
.B rewriteContext <context name> "[ alias <aliased context name> ]"
<Context name> is the name that identifies the context, i.e. the name
used by the application to refer to the set of rules it contains.
It is used also to reference sub contexts in string rewriting.
A context may aliase another one.
In this case the alias context contains no rule, and any reference to
it will result in accessing the aliased one.
.TP
.B rewriteRule "<regex match pattern>" "<substitution pattern>" "[ <flags> ]"
Determines how a string can be rewritten if a pattern is matched.
Examples are reported below.
.SH "Additional configuration syntax:"
.TP
.B rewriteMap "<map type>" "<map name>" "[ <map attrs> ]"
Allows to define a map that transforms substring rewriting into
something else.
The map is referenced inside the substitution pattern of a rule.
.TP
.B rewriteParam <param name> <param value>
Sets a value with global scope, that can be dereferenced by the
command `%{$paramName}'.
.TP
.B rewriteMaxPasses <number of passes> [<number of passes per rule>]
Sets the maximum number of total rewriting passes that can be
performed in a single rewrite operation (to avoid loops).
A safe default is set to 100; note that reaching this limit is still
treated as a success; recursive invocation of rules is simply 
interrupted.
The count applies to the rewriting operation as a whole, not 
to any single rule; an optional per-rule limit can be set.
This limit is overridden by setting specific per-rule limits
with the `M{n}' flag.
.SH "Configuration examples:"
.nf
# set to `off' to disable rewriting
rewriteEngine on

# Everything defined here goes into the `default' context.
# This rule changes the naming context of anything sent
# to `dc=home,dc=net' to `dc=OpenLDAP, dc=org'

rewriteRule "(.*)dc=home,[ ]?dc=net"
            "%1dc=OpenLDAP, dc=org"  ":"

# since a pretty/normalized DN does not include spaces
# after rdn separators, e.g. `,', this rule suffices:

rewriteRule "(.*)dc=home,dc=net"
            "%1dc=OpenLDAP,dc=org"  ":"

# Start a new context (ends input of the previous one).
# This rule adds blanks between DN parts if not present.
rewriteContext  addBlanks
rewriteRule     "(.*),([^ ].*)" "%1, %2"

# This one eats blanks
rewriteContext  eatBlanks
rewriteRule     "(.*),[ ](.*)" "%1,%2"

# Here control goes back to the default rewrite
# context; rules are appended to the existing ones.
# anything that gets here is piped into rule `addBlanks'
rewriteContext  default
rewriteRule     ".*" "%{>addBlanks(%0)}" ":"

.\" # Anything with `uid=username' is looked up in
.\" # /etc/passwd for gecos (I know it's nearly useless,
.\" # but it is there just as a guideline to implementing
.\" # custom maps).
.\" # Note the `I' flag that leaves `uid=username' in place 
.\" # if `username' does not have a valid account, and the
.\" # `:' that forces the rule to be processed exactly once.
.\" rewriteContext  uid2Gecos
.\" rewriteRule     "(.*)uid=([a-z0-9]+),(.+)"
.\"                 "%1cn=%2{xpasswd},%3"      "I:"
.\" 
.\" # Finally, in a bind, if one uses a `uid=username' DN,
.\" # it is rewritten in `cn=name surname' if possible.
.\" rewriteContext  bindDN
.\" rewriteRule     ".*" "%{>addBlanks(%{>uid2Gecos(%0)})}" ":"
.\" 
# Rewrite the search base according to `default' rules.
rewriteContext  searchBase alias default

# Search results with OpenLDAP DN are rewritten back with
# `dc=home,dc=net' naming context, with spaces eaten.
rewriteContext  searchResult
rewriteRule     "(.*[^ ]?)[ ]?dc=OpenLDAP,[ ]?dc=org"
                "%{>eatBlanks(%1)}dc=home,dc=net"    ":"

# Bind with email instead of full DN: we first need
# an ldap map that turns attributes into a DN (the
# argument used when invoking the map is appended to 
# the URI and acts as the filter portion)
rewriteMap ldap attr2dn "ldap://host/dc=my,dc=org?dn?sub"

# Then we need to detect DN made up of a single email,
# e.g. `mail=someone@example.com'; note that the rule
# in case of match stops rewriting; in case of error,
# it is ignored.  In case we are mapping virtual
# to real naming contexts, we also need to rewrite
# regular DNs, because the definition of a bindDn
# rewrite context overrides the default definition.
rewriteContext bindDN
rewriteRule "^mail=[^,]+@[^,]+$" "%{attr2dn(%0)}" ":@I"

# This is a rather sophisticated example. It massages a
# search filter in case who performs the search has
# administrative privileges.  First we need to keep
# track of the bind DN of the incoming request, which is
# stored in a variable called `binddn' with session scope,
# and left in place to allow regular binding:
rewriteContext  bindDN
rewriteRule     ".+" "%{&&binddn(%0)}%0" ":"

# A search filter containing `uid=' is rewritten only
# if an appropriate DN is bound.
# To do this, in the first rule the bound DN is
# dereferenced, while the filter is decomposed in a
# prefix, in the value of the `uid=<arg>' AVA, and 
# in a suffix. A tag `<>' is appended to the DN. 
# If the DN refers to an entry in the `ou=admin' subtree, 
# the filter is rewritten OR-ing the `uid=<arg>' with
# `cn=<arg>'; otherwise it is left as is. This could be
# useful, for instance, to allow apache's auth_ldap-1.4
# module to authenticate users with both `uid' and
# `cn', but only if the request comes from a possible
# `cn=Web auth,ou=admin,dc=home,dc=net' user.
rewriteContext searchFilter
rewriteRule "(.*\e\e()uid=([a-z0-9_]+)(\e\e).*)"
  "%{**binddn}<>%{&prefix(%1)}%{&arg(%2)}%{&suffix(%3)}"
  ":I"
rewriteRule "[^,]+,ou=admin,dc=home,dc=net"
  "%{*prefix}|(uid=%{*arg})(cn=%{*arg})%{*suffix}" ":@I"
rewriteRule ".*<>" "%{*prefix}uid=%{*arg}%{*suffix}" ":"

# This example shows how to strip unwanted DN-valued
# attribute values from a search result; the first rule
# matches DN values below "ou=People,dc=example,dc=com";
# in case of match the rewriting exits successfully.
# The second rule matches everything else and causes
# the value to be rejected.
rewriteContext searchResult
rewriteRule ".*,ou=People,dc=example,dc=com" "%0" ":@"
rewriteRule ".*" "" "#"
.fi
.SH "LDAP Proxy resolution (a possible evolution of slapd\-ldap(5)):"
In case the rewritten DN is an LDAP URI, the operation is initiated
towards the host[:port] indicated in the uri, if it does not refer
to the local server.
E.g.:
.LP
.nf
  rewriteRule '^cn=root,.*' '%0'                     'G{3}'
  rewriteRule '^cn=[a-l].*' 'ldap://ldap1.my.org/%0' ':@'
  rewriteRule '^cn=[m-z].*' 'ldap://ldap2.my.org/%0' ':@'
  rewriteRule '.*'          'ldap://ldap3.my.org/%0' ':@'
.fi
.LP
(Rule 1 is simply there to illustrate the `G{n}' action; it could have
been written:
.LP
.nf
  rewriteRule '^cn=root,.*' 'ldap://ldap3.my.org/%0' ':@'
.fi
.LP
with the advantage of saving one rewrite pass ...)
.SH PROXY CACHE OVERLAY
The proxy cache overlay 
allows caching of LDAP search requests (queries) in a local database.
For an incoming query, the
proxy cache determines its corresponding \fBtemplate\fP. If the template was
specified as cacheable using the \fBproxytemplate\fP directive and the request is
contained in a cached request, it is answered from the proxy cache. Otherwise,
the search is performed as usual and cacheable search results are saved in the
cache for use in future queries.
.LP

A template is defined by a filter string and an index identifying a set of
attributes. The \fBtemplate string\fP for a query can be obtained by
removing assertion values from the RFC 2254 representation of its search
filter. A query belongs to a template if its template string and set of
projected attributes correspond to a cacheable template. Examples of template strings are (mail=), (|(sn=)(cn=)), (&(sn=)(givenName=)).    

.LP 
The following cache specific directives can be used to configure the proxy
cache: 
.TP
.B overlay proxycache
This directive adds the proxycache overlay to the current backend. The
proxycache overlay may be used with any backend but is intended for use
with the
.B ldap
and
.B meta
backends.
.TP
.B proxycache <database> <max_entries> <numattrsets> <entry_limit> <cc_period> 
The directive enables proxy caching in the current backend and sets general
cache parameters. A <database> backend will be used internally to maintain
the cached entries. The chosen database will need to be configured as well,
as shown below. Cache replacement is invoked when the cache size grows to 
<max_entries> entries and continues till the cache size drops below this size.
<numattrsets> should be equal to the number of following \fBproxyattrset\fP
directives. Queries are cached only if they correspond to a cacheable template
(specified by the \fBproxytemplate\fP directive) and the number of entries
returned is less than <entry_limit>. Consistency check is performed every
<cc_period> duration (specified in secs). In each cycle queries with expired
"time to live(\fBTTL\fP)" are removed. A sample cache configuration is: 
.LP
.RS
proxycache \fBbdb 10000 1 50 100\fP
.RE
.TP
.B proxyattrset <index> <attrs...>
Used to associate a set of attributes <attrs..> with an <index>. Each attribute
set is associated with an integer from 0 to <numattrsets>-1. These indices are
used by the \fBproxytemplate\fP directive to define cacheable templates. 

.TP
.B proxytemplate <template_string> <attrset_index> <ttl> 
Specifies a cacheable template and "time to live" (in sec) <ttl> of queries 
belonging to the template. 

.LP
The following adds a template with filter string (&sn=)(givenName=)) and attributes mail, postaladdress, telephonenumber and a TTL of 1 hour. 
.LP
.RS
.nf
proxyattrset \fB0 mail postaladdress telephonenumber\fP
proxytemplate \fB(&(sn=)(givenName=)) 0 3600\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Directives for configuring the underlying database must also be given, as
shown here:
.LP
.RS
.nf
directory /var/tmp/cache
cachesize 100
.fi
.RE
.LP
Any valid directives for the chosen database type may be used.
.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd\-ldap (5),
.BR slapd (8),
.BR regex (7).
.SH AUTHOR
Pierangelo Masarati, based on back-ldap by Howard Chu
