.TH SLAPO-TRANSLUCENT 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 2004-2008 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapo-translucent \- Translucent Proxy overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Translucent Proxy overlay can be used with a backend database such as
.BR slapd-bdb (5)
to create a "translucent proxy".  Entries retrieved from a remote LDAP
server may have some or all attributes overridden, or new attributes
added, by entries in the local database before being presented to the
client.
.LP
A
.BR search
operation is first populated with entries from the remote LDAP server, the
attributes of which are then overridden with any attributes defined in the
local database. Local overrides may be populated with the
.BR add ,
.B modify ,
and
.B modrdn
operations, the use of which is restricted to the root user.
.LP
A
.BR compare
operation will perform a comparison with attributes defined in the local
database record (if any) before any comparison is made with data in the
remote database.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The Translucent Proxy overlay uses a remote LDAP server which is configured
with the options shown in
.BR slapd-ldap (5).
These
.B slapd.conf
options are specific to the Translucent Proxy overlay; they may appear anywhere
after the
.B overlay
directive and before any subsequent
.B database
directive.
.TP
.B translucent_strict
By default, attempts to delete attributes in either the local or remote
databases will be silently ignored. The
.B translucent_strict
directive causes these modifications to fail with a Constraint Violation.
.TP
.B translucent_no_glue
This configuration option disables the automatic creation of "glue" records
for an
.B add
or
.B modrdn
operation, such that all parents of an entry added to the local database
must be created by hand. Glue records are always created for a
.B modify
operation.
.SH CAVEATS
.LP
The Translucent Proxy overlay will disable schema checking in the local database,
so that an entry consisting of overlay attributes need not adhere to the
complete schema.
.LP
Because the translucent overlay does not perform any DN rewrites,  the local
and remote database instances must have the same suffix.  Other configurations
will probably fail with No Such Object and other errors.
.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd-ldap (5).
