.TH SLAPO-DYNLIST 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 1998-2005 The OpenLDAP Foundation, All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See the COPYRIGHT file.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapo-dynlist \- dynnamic list overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dynlist
overlay to
.BR slapd (8)
allows expansion of dynamic groups and more.
Any time an entry with a specific objectClass is being returned,
the LDAP URI-valued occurrences of a specific attribute are
expanded into the corresponding entries, and the values
of the attributes listed in the URI are added to the original
entry.
No recursion is currently allowed, to avoid potential infinite loops.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The config directives that are specific to the
.B dynlist
overlay must be prefixed by
.BR dynlist\- ,
to avoid potential conflicts with directives specific to the underlying 
database or to other stacked overlays.

.TP
.B overlay dynlist
This directive adds the dynlist overlay to the current database,
or to the frontend, if used before any database instantiation; see
.BR slapd.conf (5)
for details.

.LP
These 
.B slapd.conf
configuration options apply to the dynlist overlay. They must appear
after the
.B overlay
directive.
.TP
.B dynlist-oc <objectClass>
The name of the objectClass that triggers the dynamic expansion of the
data.  This statement is required.
.TP
.B dynlist-ad <attributeName>
The name of the attributeDescription that holds the LDAP URI values that
will expand; if none is present, no expansion occurs.  If the intersection
of the attributes requested by the search operation (or the asserted attribute
for compares) and the attributes listed in the URI is empty, no expansion 
occurs for that specific URI.  This statement is required.
.TP
.B dynlist-member-ad <attributeName>
The name of the attributeDescription that will list the DN of the entries
resulting from the internal search.  This statement is optional and, if
present, changes the behvior of the overlay into that of a dynamic group.
The <attrs> portion of the URI is ignored, and the DNs of all the entries 
resulting from the expansion of the URI are listed as values of this 
attribute.

.LP
The dynlist overlay may be used with any backend, but it is mainly 
intended for use with local storage backends.
In case the URI expansion is very resource-intensive and occurs frequently
with well-defined patterns, one should consider adding a proxycache
later on in the overlay stack.

.SH EXAMPLE
This example collects all the email addresses of a database into a single
entry; first of all, make sure that slapd.conf contains the directives:

.LP
.nf
    include /path/to/dyngroup.schema
    # ...

    database <database>
    # ...

    overlay dynlist
    dynlist-oc groupOfURLs
    dynlist-ad memberURL
.fi
.LP
and that slapd loads dynlist.la, if compiled as a run-time module;
then add to the database an entry like
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Dynamic List,ou=Groups,dc=example,dc=com
    objectClass: groupOfURLs
    cn: Dynamic List
    memberURL: ldap:///ou=People,dc=example,dc=com?mail?sub?(objectClass=person)
.fi

If no <attrs> are provided in the URI, all (non-operational) attributes are
collected.


.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Originally implemented by Pierangelo Masarati.
