.TH SLAPO-REFINT 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 2004-2008 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapo-refint \- Referential Integrity overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Referential Integrity overlay can be used with a backend database such as
.BR slapd-bdb (5)
to maintain the cohesiveness of a schema which utilizes reference attributes.
.LP
Integrity is maintained by updating database records which contain the named
attributes to match the results of a
.B modrdn
or
.B delete
operation. For example, if the integrity attribute were configured as
.BR manager ,
deletion of the record "uid=robert,ou=people,o=openldap.org" would trigger a
search for all other records which have a
.B manager
attribute containing that DN. Entries matching that search would have their
.B manager
attribute removed.
.SH CONFIGURATION
These
.B slapd.conf
options apply to the Referential Integrity overlay.
They should appear after the
.B overlay
directive.
.TP
.B refint_attributes <attribute...>
Specify one or more attributes for which integrity will be maintained
as described above.
.TP
.B refint_nothing <string>
Specify an arbitrary value to be used as a placeholder when the last value
would otherwise be deleted from an attribute. This can be useful in cases
where the schema requires the existence of an attribute for which referential
integrity is enforced. The attempted deletion of a required attribute will
otherwise result in an Object Class Violation, causing the request to fail.
.B
.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapd.conf (5).
