.TH LDAPMODRDN 1 "12 July 2000" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapmodrdn \- LDAP rename entry tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapmodrdn
[\c
.BR \-r ]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-k ]
[\c
.BR \-K ]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BR \-C ]
[\c
.BR \-M[M] ]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BI \-P \ 2\fR\||\|\fI3\fR]
[\c
.BR \-O \ security-properties ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ username\fR]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z[Z] ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
[\c
.I dn  rdn\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ldapmodrdn
is a shell-accessible interface to the
.BR ldap_modrdn2 (3)
library call.
.LP
.B ldapmodrdn
opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and modifies the RDN of entries.
The entry information is read from standard input, from \fIfile\fP through
the use of the
.RI \- f
option, or from the command-line pair \fIdn\fP and
\fIrdn\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-r
Remove old RDN values from the entry.  Default is to keep old values.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what would be done, but don't actually change entries.  Useful for
debugging in conjunction with -v.
.TP
.B \-v
Use verbose mode, with many diagnostics written to standard output.
.TP
.B \-k
Use Kerberos authentication instead of simple authentication.  It is
assumed that you already have a valid ticket granting ticket.
.B ldapmodrdn
must be compiled with KERBEROS defined for this option to have effect.
.TP
.B \-K
Same as \-k, but only does step 1 of the kerberos bind.  This is useful
when connecting to a slapd and there is no x500dsa.hostname principal
registered with your kerberos servers.
.TP
.B \-C
Automatically chase referrals.
.TP
.B \-c
Continuous operation mode.  Errors  are  reported,  but ldapmodify
will  continue  with  modifications.   The default is to exit after
reporting an error.
.TP
.B \-M[M]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.B \-d debuglevel
Set the LDAP debugging level to \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapmodrdn
must be
compiled with LDAP_DEBUG defined for this option to have any effect.
.TP
.B \-f file
Read the entry modification information from \fIfile\fP instead of from
standard input or the command-line.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.B \-D binddn
Use \fIbinddn\fP to bind to the LDAP directory. \fIbinddn\fP should be
a string-represented DN as defined in RFC 1779.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt for simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.B \-w passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as the password for simple authentication.
.TP
.B \-h ldaphost
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
.TP
.B \-p ldapport
Specify an alternate TCP port where the ldap server is listening.
.TP
.BI \-P \ 2\fR\||\|\fI3
Specify the LDAP protocol version to use.
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL security properties.
.TP
.BI \-U \ username
Specify the username for SASL bind. The syntax of the username depends on the
actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify the requested authorization ID for SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of the following formats:
.B dn:\c
.I <distinguished name>
or
.B u:\c
.I <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify the SASL mechanism to be used for authentication. If it's not
specified, the program will choose the best mechanism the server knows.
.TP
.B \-Z[Z]
Issue StartTLS (Transport Layer Security) extended operation. If you use
.B \-ZZ\c
, the command will require the operation to be successful.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
If the command-line arguments \fIdn\fP and \fIrdn\fP are given, \fIrdn\fP
will replace the RDN of the entry specified by the DN, \fIdn\fP.
.LP
Otherwise, the contents of \fIfile\fP (or standard input if
no
.RI \- f
flag is given) should consist of one or more entries.
.LP
.nf
    Distinguished Name (DN)
    Relative Distinguished Name (RDN)
.fi
.LP
One or more blank lines may be used to separate each DN/RDN pair.
.SH EXAMPLE
Assuming that the file
.B /tmp/entrymods
exists and has the contents:
.LP
.nf
    cn=Modify Me, dc=OpenLDAP, dc=org
    cn=The New Me
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapmodify -r -f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.LP
will change the RDN of the "Modify Me" entry from "Modify Me" to
"The New Me" and the old cn, "Modify Me" will be removed.
.LP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is 0 if no errors occur.  Errors result in a non-zero exit
status and a diagnostic message being written to standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodify (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_modrdn2 (3)
.LP
Kille, S.,
.IR "A String Representation of Distinguished Names",
.SM RFC
1779,
ISODE Consortium, March 1995.
.SH BUGS
There is no interactive mode, but there probably should be.
.SH AUTHOR
The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
