.TH LDAPMODIFY 1 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2008 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapmodify, ldapadd \- LDAP modify entry and LDAP add entry tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapmodify
[\c
.BR \-a ]
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-S \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-M[M] ]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BI \-P \ 2\fR\||\|\fI3\fR]
[\c
.BR \-O \ security-properties ]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z[Z] ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
.LP
.B ldapadd
[\c
.BR \-c ]
[\c
.BI \-S \ file\fR]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-M[M] ]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-h \ ldaphost\fR]
[\c
.BI \-p \ ldapport\fR]
[\c
.BI \-P \ 2\fR\||\|\fI3\fR]
[\c
.BR \-O \ security-properties ]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z[Z] ]
[\c
.BI \-f \ file\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ldapmodify
is a shell-accessible interface to the
.BR ldap_modify (3)
and
.BR ldap_add (3)
library calls.
.B ldapadd
is implemented as a hard link to the ldapmodify tool.  When invoked as
.B ldapadd
the -a (add new entry) flag is turned on automatically.
.LP
.B ldapmodify
opens a connection to an LDAP server, binds, and modifies or adds entries.
The entry information is read from standard input or from \fIfile\fP through
the use of the -f option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Add new entries.  The default for
.B ldapmodify
is to modify existing entries.  If invoked as
.BR ldapadd ,
this flag is always set.
.TP
.B \-c
Continuous operation mode.  Errors are reported, but
.B ldapmodify
will continue with modifications.  The default is to exit after
reporting an error.
.TP
.BI \-S \ file
Add or change records which where skipped due to an error are written to \fIfile\fP 
and the error message returned by the server is added as a comment. Most useful in 
conjunction with -c.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what would be done, but don't actually modify entries.  Useful for
debugging in conjunction with -v.
.TP
.B \-v
Use verbose mode, with many diagnostics written to standard output.
.TP
.B \-F
Force application of all changes regardless of the contents of input
lines that begin with
.I replica:
(by default, replica: lines are compared against the LDAP server host
and port in use to decide if a replog record should actually be applied).
.TP
.B \-M[M]
Enable manage DSA IT control.
.B \-MM
makes control critical.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set the LDAP debugging level to \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapmodify
must be compiled with LDAP_DEBUG defined for this option to have any effect.
.TP
.BI \-f \ file
Read the entry modification information from \fIfile\fP instead of from
standard input.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use the Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP to bind to the LDAP directory.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt for simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as the password for simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contents of \fIpasswdfile\fP as the password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referring to the ldap server(s); only the protocol/host/port
fields are allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BI \-h \ ldaphost
Specify an alternate host on which the ldap server is running.
Deprecated in favor of -H.
.TP
.BI \-p \ ldapport
Specify an alternate TCP port where the ldap server is listening.
Deprecated in favor of -H.
.TP
.BI \-P \ 2\fR\||\|\fI3
Specify the LDAP protocol version to use.
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL security properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactive mode.  Always prompt.  Default is to prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify the authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the ID
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify the realm of authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the realm
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify the requested authorization ID for SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of the following formats:
.B dn:\c
.I <distinguished name>
or
.B u:\c
.I <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify the SASL mechanism to be used for authentication. If it's not
specified, the program will choose the best mechanism the server knows.
.TP
.B \-Z[Z]
Issue StartTLS (Transport Layer Security) extended operation. If you use
.B \-ZZ\c
, the command will require the operation to be successful.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
The contents of \fIfile\fP (or standard input if no \-f flag is given on
the command line) should conform to the format defined in
.BR ldif (1)
(LDIF as defined RFC 2849), or
.BR slapd.replog (5)
(an extended form of LDIF)
with the exceptions noted below.
.LP
Lines that begin with "replica:" are matched against the LDAP server host
and port in use to decide if a particular replog record should be applied.
Any other lines that precede the "dn:" line are ignored.
The -F flag can be used to force
.I ldapmodify
to apply all of the replog changes, regardless of the presence or
absence of any "replica:" lines.
.LP
If no "changetype:" line is present, the default is "add" if the -a
flag is set (or if the program was invoked as
.I ldapadd)
and "modify" otherwise.
.LP
If changetype is "modify" and no "add:", "replace:", or "delete:" lines
appear, the default is "replace" for
.BR ldapmodify (1)
and "add" for
.BR ldapadd (1).
.LP
Note that the above exceptions to the
.BR slapd.replog (5)
format allow
.BR ldif (5)
entries to be used as input to
.I ldapmodify
or
.I ldapadd.
.SH EXAMPLES
Assuming that the file
.B /tmp/entrymods
exists and has the contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Modify Me,dc=example,dc=com
    changetype: modify
    replace: mail
    mail: modme@example.com
    -
    add: title
    title: Grand Poobah
    -
    add: jpegPhoto
    jpegPhoto:< file:///tmp/modme.jpeg
    -
    delete: description
    -
.fi
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapmodify -f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.LP
will replace the contents of the "Modify Me" entry's
.I mail
attribute with the value "modme@example.com", add a
.I title
of "Grand Poobah", and the contents of the file "/tmp/modme.jpeg"
as a
.IR jpegPhoto ,
and completely remove the
.I description
attribute.
.LP
Assuming that the file
.B /tmp/newentry
exists and has the contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Barbara Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
    objectClass: person
    cn: Barbara Jensen
    cn: Babs Jensen
    sn: Jensen
    title: the world's most famous mythical manager
    mail: bjensen@example.com
    uid: bjensen
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapadd -f /tmp/newentry
.fi
.LP
will add a new entry for Babs Jensen, using the values from the
file
.B /tmp/newentry.
.LP
Assuming that the file
.B /tmp/entrymods
exists and has the contents:
.LP
.nf
    dn: cn=Barbara Jensen,dc=example,dc=com
    changetype: delete
.LP
the command:
.LP
.nf
    ldapmodify -f /tmp/entrymods
.fi
.LP
will remove Babs Jensen's entry.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is zero if no errors occur.  Errors result in a non-zero
exit status and a diagnostic message being written to standard error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldapadd (1),
.BR ldapdelete (1),
.BR ldapmodrdn (1),
.BR ldapsearch (1),
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_add (3),
.BR ldap_delete (3),
.BR ldap_modify (3),
.BR ldap_modrdn (3),
.BR ldif (5),
.BR slapd.replog (5)
.SH AUTHOR
The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
