.TH UD 1 "20 August 2000" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2000 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.UC 6
.SH NAME
ud \- interactive LDAP Directory Server query program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ud
[\c
.BR -Dv ]
.RB [ -s 
.IR server ]
.RB [ -d
.IR debug-mask ]
.RB [ -l
.IR ldap-debug-mask ]
.RB [ -f
.IR file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR ud
is used to interogate a directory server via the Lightweight Directory
Access Protocol (LDAP).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 1i
.BI \-s \ server
Used to specify the name of an LDAP server to which
.B ud
should connect.  If this
flag is omitted, the value specified in the
.B ud
configuration file is used.  If
no value is specified in the configuration file, or the configuration
file does not exist, the name
.IR ldap
is used.  Of course, it is up to the system administrator to make sure that
the name
.IR ldap
can be resolved (presumably through the use of a CNAME or A record in the DNS
and the appropriate search path specified in the resolver config file).
.TP 1i
.BI \-d \ debug-mask
Sets the
.B ud
debug mask to the value specified.  
Values for the mask can be dumped by using the
.IR \-D
flag.
.TP 1i
.BI \-f \ file
Sets the configuration file to the name specified.
.TP 1i
.BI \-l \ ldap-debug-mask
Sets the LDAP debug mask to the value specified.  
.TP 1i
.B \-v
Turns on verbose output.  Also toggable via the ud 
.IR verbose 
command.
.TP 1i
.B \-D
Prints out a list of valid ud debug masks.
.SH FILES
ETCDIR/ud.conf		The ud configuration file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ud.conf (5),
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B ud
will try to be nice about error conditions, and in most cases prints a warm
and fuzzy error message when it encounters a problem.  Sometimes the error
will be unexpected, and in these cases, 
.B ud
uses the ldap_perror() routine to print an informative diagnostic.
.SH BUGS
Too numerous to mention.
.SH AUTHOR
Bryan Beecher, University of Michigan
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B	OpenLDAP
is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project (http://www.openldap.org/).
.B	OpenLDAP
is derived from University of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.  
